 The drama that has characterised the rape and murder trial of a Zimbabwean man, Trust Tofa, continued in the Port Elizabeth High Court on Monday. It is the State's case that in November 2016, Tofa went to his ex-girlfriend's home in Motherwell, Port Elizabeth, armed with an iron rod and a knife and allegedly kicked down her door. He allegedly then brutally assaulted Godfrey Kumire, also from Zimbabwe, with the iron rod who was in a relationship with his ex girlfriend. Tofa apparently stabbed the woman’s sister after she threw boiling water at him hoping to stop his attack. He then dragged his ex-girlfriend to a house where he allegedly raped her twice. Kumire died from injuries sustained during the brutal assault. Tofa was arrested for murder, housebreaking, assault with intent to cause grievous bodily harm, kidnapping and rape. On Monday, Tofa got angry after hearing the testimony of another State witness and claimed that the investigating officer, Ntandazo Platyie was behind all the "lies" made against him on the stand. The witness is the brother of the key witness, who is Tofa's ex-girlfriend – and cannot be named. State prosecutor, Jason Thysse, asked the witness how he knew Tofa. He said that he used to see him drinking at a local tavern with his friends when he went there to drink as well, but he didn't know him that well. But Tofa angrily interjected accusing the witness of lying. "This man is lying I can't listen to him because he is talking nonsense. “I used to take him to work and give him money," Tofa said. Pointing at the investigating officer, Platyie on the case, he added; "I can't listen to this, this v*gina is the one behind all this." Judge Jannie Eksteen then had to adjourn proceedings while Tofa continued hurling more obscene insults at the investigating officer. He was then walked down to the court’s holding cells. A few minutes later, Judge Eksteen told the defence that he would not tolerate the insulting remarks made by the accused in his courtroom. He added that if Tofa continues to do so, he will be forced to rule that the trial continues without his presence in court. This is not the first time Tofa has made angry outbursts in the court. Last week, he told the key State witness - who is also his ex-girlfriend, that he should have killed her instead of killing another Zimbabwean. The trial continues. 