 Around 200 dogs were sterilised for free on Sunday during the first-ever Mayoral Animal Care Movement (MACM) project, which was held at the Motherwell NU30 Community Hall, in Port Elizabeth. The exercise is expected to continue on Monday afternoon. The project was launched by Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, at the end of the May. He was accompanied by Member of Parliament and DA Student Organisation (DASO) leader, Yusuf Cassim. According to the Mayor, the mass dog sterilisation project will focus on dogs from across the city, whose owners wouldn't otherwise be able to afford the procedure. The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality partnered with the Animal Welfare Society for the event and 17 veterinary doctors were on hand to help sterilise the animals. Local retailer, SPAR Eastern Cape, also partnered on the project and gave every dog owner, who attended food for themselves and food for their dogs. The retailer also provided meals for the vets and their assistants. Not to be outdone, Rennies, also donated blankets for every dog and it was them, who brought some of the volunteers, who acted as assistants. Trollip, encouraged by the dog owners, mostly young kids, said; "Young kids are becoming examples to adults about caring for their animals.” He revealed that R250 000 was spent by the Mayor's Office to ensure success of the project - a first of its kind in the Metro. Judging by the success of the project, Trollip said that they will find more money to keep the project sustainable. “Many people cannot afford to have their dogs sterilised in the city and, as the city, we are going to find more money to assist those people, who love their animals but can’t afford," he said. “We want to be a caring government and that is why we have put this money aside to help the animals and we will find more money to do more. “Our plan is to sterilise a total of 700 dogs throughout the Metro and this will go a long of way in addressing dog population in areas where this is currently a problem." Local Ward Councillor, Morgan Tshaka, said he believes that it was a good project and hoped it would continue because many dog owners cannot afford to take their dogs to Veterinary Clinics. Hannes Stander, Manager at the Animal Society Project, said that although their target is female dogs - so that they won’t get puppies, they were not chasing away anyone, who want their dogs to get medical attention. "It's absolutely amazing," he said. There were some dogs that were taken by the local SPCA because they were sick and the procedure could not done one them.  