 Twenty-four entrepreneurs from Motherwell and Uitenhage came together on Monday at the Wells Estate Community Centre, to celebrate their graduation from a business training programme provided by Coca-Cola Beverages South Africa (CCBSA). Each of the graduates had to go through a year of intense training to show that they were dedicated to the project and will receive a fully-stocked spaza shop Container, that they must run as a successful business. The graduates received training and the container as part of a the CCBSA Youth Development Programme and its partners - the Small Enterprise Finance Agency (SEFA), the Department of Small Business Development and the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality. The training and the fully-stocked spaza shop container, are valued at R250 000, however the graduates will have to pay back the cost of the container (R80,000) to SEFA, once they begin to run their business successfully and make a profit. Velaphi Ratshefola, the managing director of CCBSA, said; “We must reclaim South African businesses, such as shops and spazas, the youth must realise that it is cool and that they can make a lot of money from it." Tshidi Ramogose, the Public Affairs and Communications director of CCBSA, added; “We hope that in two or three years from now, that the graduates have prospered and have opened new businesses and that they grow beyond the container.” The Empowerment programme also encourages the youth to ‘pay it forward’ by hopefully in time employing others in their community, once their business starts to profit and expand. The programme was launched with a recruitment drive, where applicants had to go through a strict selection process, where they were tested on numeracy, literacy and business skills. Successful applicants were coached on business theory and had to do a Boot Camp, which entailed them being at work at 6 am in the morning, doing practical selling, business pitching and marketing. The aspiring entrepreneurs will be allocated their containers for the next two months and must use what they have learnt along with their own initiative to run their new business. Young Graduate, Asanda Ntsendo (25), said “I am very grateful for this opportunity. It is my first time running a business and I hope to create work for people in my area. Being an independent business woman means a lot to me.”  