 Justice was served as 29-year-old Kwanele Kilana from Zwide, Port Elizabeth, who was on Wednesday found guilty of raping a Nelson Mandela University student and sexually assaulting another last year, will be spending a very long time behind bars after PE High Court Judge, Dalayin Chetty, handed him three life terms plus over 45 years for his crimes on Thursday. On Tuesday, Kilana pleaded guilty to seven counts out of the 12 he was facing. He was subsequently found guilty of 11 counts - four counts of rape, two compelled sexual assaults, attempted robbery with aggravating circumstances, house breaking with intent to steal and theft, sexual assault, and robbery with aggravating circumstances. Kilana also gave the court a detailed narration of how he carried out his attacks. He was sentenced to three life sentences for rape, 15 years imprisonment for robbery with aggravating circumstances, 18 months for attempted robbery with aggravating circumstances, 10 years imprisonment for compelled sexual assault, three years imprisonment for sexual assault and 15 years for robbery with aggravating circumstances. Kilana broke into a Nelson Mandela University computer lab in 2017, apparently with the intention of stealing computers, but ended up raping a female student and sexually assaulting another one before running off with their personal belongings as well as a computer from the lab. As a result, NMU students embarked on a shutdown and called on the university to improve its campus security – considering that it was not the first time such an incident had occurred at the institution. While delivering his ruling, Judge Chetty said that Kilana was a danger to society – especially women, therefore he needed to be taken away to ensure safety. Chetty, while referring to the rape incident that Kilana admitted to have done in July 2017 at the Greenacres Shopping Mall, said that Kilana has proven to be a danger to women in general and their safety can be guaranteed by permanently removing him from society. The Judge added that he wanted to prove to women how much of a man he can be by raping them. He dismissed the Defence’s plea that Kilana had not intentionally gone to the NMU to rape, but to steal computers, arguing that when he instructed the two NMU students to undress, it wasn't because he wanted to see if they were hiding valuable items, as his attorney had portrayed, but it was because he wanted to rape them. Kilana cast a lonely figure in the dock as Judge Chetty delivered his sentence and hid his face from the press that wanted to take photos.  