 The Patriotic Alliance (PA) has backtracked on a move to have current Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral Committee member for Roads and Transport, Marlon Daniels, become the next Executive Mayor of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality if a motion of no confidence against current Mayor, Athol Trollip, succeeds. The latest development was announced in a statement on Wednesday in response to a statement by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF). On Tuesday, the EFF said they would rather sit on the sidelines than hand over the Nelson Mandela Bay to "thugs". Last week, six opposition parties, the African National Congress (ANC), the United Democratic Movement (UDM), the EFF, the African Independent Congress (AIC), the United Front (UF) and the PA said they want Trollip and the entire Democratic Alliance (DA) led Mayoral Committee out. According to UDM national leader, Bantu Holomisa, and Gayton Mckenzie, who is the leader of the PA, an understanding was reached that Daniels would take the mayoral position while the UDM's Regional Chairperson, Mongameli Bobani, will bounce back into his previous position as Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Deputy Executive Mayor. Ironically, it was Daniels, who set in motion the removal of Bobani as Deputy Mayor last year. The two later said that they had let by-gones be by-gones when they sought the removal of Trollip in November last year. This year, they again found themselves on opposite sides as the PA struck a deal with the Democratic Alliance (DA) coalition, which saved Trollip after another motion of no confidence was brought against him. However, the EFF, which saved Trollip in November last year, released a statement on Tuesday stating that they will never hand over the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality to "thugs". "Our hatred for racism will not manipulate us to vote a party of unrepentant fraudsters. EFF will never give the city of Nelson Mandela Bay to thugs. If there is no worthy candidate from opposition benches, then the EFF will not participate," the EFF described. The party added that they still support the removal of Trollip as the mayor. Without the EFF's six votes, the opposition motion can be easily defeated by the DA coalition,  which includes the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) and the Congress of the People (COPE). The coalition has 59 seats at Council combined, while the opposition parties have 55 votes - hence, the EFF's six votes are needed if the opposition wants to secure the 61-vote majority in the 120-seat council. Mckenzie and EFF leader, Julius Malema, do not exactly have a cozy relationship after the PA came to the aid of the DA, when Malema wanted to "teach them a lesson" after the DA refused to back the policy of land expropriation without compensation. However, Mckenzie said that he has decided to be the bigger man by putting the people of the Metro first. "We cannot let our personal disgruntlement with the leadership of the EFF hold the people of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality hostage to their suffering," he described. "The PA is therefore willing to remove its candidate for the for the mayoral position." He added that the PA has many insults to throw at the EFF, but they rather not do so because "this is not the time for games" and they will not give the EFF a chance to blame them when the DA retains power. "We shall honour the signature we signed to remove the current DA government," Mckenzie concluded. Apparently, Bobani is now the proposed candidate to replace Trollip. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Speaker, Jonathan Lawack, on Wednsday declined a request by opposition parties to hold a special Council Meeting this Friday in order to debate Trollip's fate as Executive Mayor. Lawack's reason for refusing the parties' request, which was lodged on Friday last week, is that they did not allow for a five days notice, as is required by Council rules. He has since scheduled the requested council meeting for the 16th of August. 