 Current Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral Committee member for Roads and Transport, Marlon Daniels, of the Patriotic Alliance (PA), could be the Metro's next Executive Mayor if the latest bid to oust current Mayor, Athol Trollip, succeeds. Six opposition parties, the African National Congress (ANC), the United Democratic Movement (UDM), the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), the African Independent Congress (AIC), the United Front (UF) and the PA want Trollip out. According to UDM national leader, Bantu Holomisa, and Gayton Mckenzie, who is the leader of the PA, an understanding was reached that Daniels would take the mayoral position while the UDM's Regional Chairperson, Mongameli Bobani, will bounce back into his previous position as Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Deputy Executive Mayor. Ironically, it was Daniels, who set in motion the removal of Bobani as Deputy Mayor last year. The two later said that they had let by-gones be by-gones when they sought the removal of Trollip in November last year. This year, they again found themselves on opposite sides as the PA struck a deal with the Democratic Alliance (DA) coalition, which saved Trollip after another motion of no confidence was brought against him. However, the EFF, which saved Trollip in November last year, released a statement on Tuesday stating that they will never hand over the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality to "thugs". "Our hatred for racism will not manipulate us to vote a party of unrepentant fraudsters. EFF will never give the city of Nelson Mandela Bay to thugs. If there is no worthy candidate from opposition benches, then the EFF will not participate," the EFF described. The party added that they still support the removal of Trollip as the mayor. Last week, it seemed the opposition parties had resolved their differences and will use their combined 61 seats against the DA-led coalition's 59 seats - but it would seem the EFF, with its six seats, has broken rank and might end up swinging the vote in favour of the DA-led coalition, which includes the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) and the Congress of the People (COPE). Without the EFF's six votes, the opposition motion can be easily defeated by the DA coalition. They petitioned Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Speaker, Jonathan Lawack, to schedule a special Council Meeting for this Friday to debate the future of Trollip and his entire Mayoral Committee. Lawack is yet to confirm the special Council Meeting as the petition apparently did not adhere to the required minimum five working days. 