 A 29-year-old man is expected in court on  Friday after he was swiftly arrested by Port Elizabeth after robbing a 41-year-old man, who was walking home from work in the early hours of Thursday morning in New Brighton. According to police spokesman, Captain Andre Beetge, the 41-year-old was robbed of his cellphone and black backpack containing personal belongings. He said that during the robbery, a scuffle ensued between the victim and the suspect, and one shot was fired by the suspect. "A New Brighton SAPS patrol vehicle close by heard the shot and on approaching the robbery scene, several shots were also fired on the police members by the suspect," Capt Beetge described. He said that the suspect escaped by running between houses in the area. However, the police called for back-up vehicles, which led to his arrest in just 15 minutes. "The 29-year-old suspect was found hiding in a shack about 50 metres away by SAPS Flying Squad and K9 members. "The firearm, a 9mm pistol, of which the serial numbers have been removed, as well as the belongings of the victim were found in his possession," Capt Beetge added. "He was arrested on charges of attempted murder, armed robbery and illegal possession of an unlicenced firearm." In a separate case, New Brighton police also arrested a 23-year-old on Wednesday night for possession of an unlicensed firearm. Captain Beetge said that the man was found in Stofile Street, New Brighton, after the police visited a tavern in that street. "On searching the suspect, he was found in possession of a 9mm pistol, of which the serial number had been removed," he added. Captain Beetge said that the man was arrested on a charge of illegal possession of an unlicenced firearm. "Both firearms in these incidents will be sent for forensic and ballistic testing for possible linking to other serious crimes as well as to determine ownership of the firearms. "Both suspects will be appearing in the New Brighton Magistrate's Court on Friday to face their charges." Motherwell SAPS Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Radie, applauded the arrests and assured the community that "illegal firearms will remain one of the key focus areas for SAPS as serious crimes are committed by suspects using fire arms. We are urging our communities to blow the whistle on suspects that are in possession of fire arms." 