 Perhaps a befitting achievement this Women’s Month; history was made on Tuesday as a local female-owned company was announced by Eastern Cape MEC for Economic Development and Finance, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, as the second licensed offshore bunkers company in South Africa. Bunkering is the transfer of oil via hoses, pipelines, or loading arms for the purpose of providing fuel or lubricants to a tank vessel or other ships. South African Marine Fuels, which is managed by Siyamthanda Maya and has a 50% female staff complement as well as being 26% black-owned. Maya founded the company with Chrystel Bassett-Simmonds, who is a lawyer by profession. According to Mabuyane, the province of the Eastern Cape is the only province to pride itself with licenced offshore bunkering operations. The company’s vessels will carry up to 8 million gallons of fuel and will be are positioned at a general traffic hotspot zone, a few miles off the busy shipping lanes that go around the African continent. “We believe that we have set a benchmark in terms of what needs to happen for authentic transformation and it is a doorway to expand the economy in the province,” Maya described. Mabuyane said that the plan was to deliver on government’s promise to the people concerning Operation Phakisa, which has been around for the past 4-5years. He added that the oceans economy will bring many opportunities to the people of the Nelson Mandela Bay as well as surrounding areas. “We are grateful for this private-public partnership to give opportunities to other entrepreneurs to open up the market; create a conducive environment as government, and make it a point that those proposals, those entrepreneurs, are not frustrated because we start with the tendering processes,” Mabuyane added. “Let’s look for people with potential and open up the parameters for participation if we talk of the all-inclusive opportunities and we are here to realise some of the things we have talked about. “We have said that we want to remove bottlenecks, unnecessary red tapes for potential investors. We want to make sure that everyone is involved, everyone participates and we take our country to another level.”  