 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Nelson Mandela Bay Region on Tuesday said that to benefit residents in the townships, the Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, as well as the whole Democratic Alliance (DA)-led coalition, must be removed from office. ANC regional secretary, Themba Xathula, joined by ANC councillor, Rory Riordan, told the press on Tuesday that they will seek legal advice and send findings of corruption allegedly committed by Trollip to the Public Protector. Xathula said that they want to change the status quo that has seen corruption always associated with the ANC while the DA is portrayed as a corruption-free party. "The impression created here is that the DA is running a clear and clean government, which is corruption-free.We want to change the status quo and benefit our people in the townships," he described. "We are taking this matter to the Public Protector and we will seek legal advice, we want to also take aspects of this report to the relevant security departments and lay charges against the DA led coalition." In the first complaint, the ANC claims that Trollip "intentionally" misled cllr Marlon Daniels (from the Patriotic Alliance) Cllr Mkhuseli Mtsila (from the United Front) and Tshonono Buyeye (from the African Independent Congress), with regards to corruption allegedly committed by former Deputy Executive Mayor and United Democratic Movement Cllr, Mongameli Bobani,. These same allegations were used as the basis for Bobani's removal last year. In the second complaint, the ANC said that: "Cllr Trollip has committed an offence under clause 10 of the Councillor's code of conduct and rule 13 of the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Rules of Order." Complaint three regards Trollip's alleged behavior towards then controversial head of safety and security at the Nelson Mandela Bay, Linda Mti. "Trollip professed that, Mti was unfit for the position that he held, yet when he had the power to effect change, he did nothing. His inaction after his appointment as mayor, is a cause for concern and must be reviewed." Complaint four is Trollip's "unwillingness to prosecute allies and withholding vital information from council," and complaint five says "corruption is now fine" under the DA-led coalition government. 