 Two learners from Mnceba Senior Secondary School, in Ntabankulu, died in a vehicle accident while on their way to school on Tuesday morning, the Eastern Cape Department of Education announced. Apparently, the learners were part of a group of 20 learners, who were travelling in a privately hired bakkie that had been hired by their parents. It is alleged that the driver of the Isuzu bakkie was speeding when he lost control of the vehicle and it overturned. Police were called to the scene and a case of culpable homicide has been opened for investigation. "Two of the twenty learners from the same family - the Jojo's, residing in Ndakeni village, were declared dead on the scene by paramedics, who were also called to the scene," Department of Education spokesperson, Mali Mtima, described. He added that the department has organized Counsellors to visit the school to help with trauma counselling. "Additionally, today [Wednesday], a district delegation led by the District Manager, will visit the deceased family and the affected families to offer departmental condolences." Mtima said that Eastern Cape MEC for Education, Mandla Makupula, has also sent his condolences to the bereaved family. "Learners are our national treasure, because of that, as the department we send our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. We hope they will find solace in God, the Almighty during this trying time in their lives," said Makupula. The department is also planning on contributing in funeral arrangements to help the family. "As the department, we have also sent officials to also visit the 18 learners, who sustained injuries and as they are still hospitalised at Mt Ayliff Hospital," added Makupula. Information of the ages of the deceased is still to be comfirmed. Many parents still continue to use bakkies despite the awareness by the department to stop using bakkies, but use taxis instead, Mtima said. He added that it is unfortunate that parents insist on using these bakkies despite the dangers. 