 Following another, though slight, petrol increase, the South African National Taxi Council (SANTACO) announced on Tuesday that there would be another taxi fare increase - the result, commuters, whose pockets are already stretched, are unhappy. "Taxi fares set to increase as of 1 August 2018 for all local and long distance operations which will be increased by R1 - R10 and R1 - R20 respectively. These increases may be more in some areas," Santaco announced. RNEWS was on the streets on Port Elizabeth where local commuters said that they were unhappy about the new fares as they eating into their already stretched budgets. Simphiwe Nyazvigo (43) said: "I don't have a permanent job, Those piece jobs that I have, pay me little so the taxi fare increase is going to hit me hard because the money I get is simply not enough." Anelisa lombo (24): "This taxi fare increase is putting me under pressure because now I have to change my budget by decreasing somewhere to accommodate the new taxi fare." She added that the taxi fares increased recently and now they are increasing again, which is unfair to the millions of commuters, who rely on taxi's across South Africa. Siphamandla Khuhlana 27: "Money is a hard thing, the more the petrol increases the money everything will also increase. Food is expensive and now transport is also expensive, so the government must think about us and not be selfish. At least the petrol must increase once a year not consistently." Phumzile Ntibana (43): "Salaries don't increase while everything increases and we're the ones, who feel the increase. That means that the government doesn't care about the people. "First it was taxi fares, food and now it's petrol - everything is just increasing, but when we talk about salary increases, we have to strike. The strike means no work no pay, we just struggle and get into debts. When we go back to work, it's hard to repay the debts, but we make more debts. "If the government would change the strategy and create job opportunities, to also decrease the crime rate." 