 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Nelson Mandela Bay on Friday said it is happy with the newly-elected coalition government in the Bay. Following a dramatic turn of events on Monday, the Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition government that had governed the Bay since the 2016 Local Government Elections was booted out of office. Former Deputy Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, who is the United Democratic Movement's (UDM) Regional Chairperson, bounced back as the new Executive Mayor, replacing the DA's Athol Trollip, with whom he had a fall out with last year over allegations of fraud resulting in Bobani's removal from the postion of Deputy Mayor. He promptly announced his new Mayoral Committee, whose majority members are from the ANC. The re-instated postion of the Deputy Mayor as went to the ANC a well as the positions of Council Speaker and Council Chief Whip. According to ANC Nelson Mandela Bay Regional Secretary, Themba Xathula, the party was calling on the DA's coalition partners - the Congress of the People (COPE), the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP), and the Patriotic Alliance (PA) to use the opportunity to join the new ANC-led coalition "and serve the poor people and marginalized residents of the Bay". Further more, the ANC in the Bay said that it will lobby for the reviewing of the property rates policy that was introduced by the DA led-coalition - and had angered many residents. Still, not everyone was happy with the ANC bouncing back into running things at City Hall. "To the Ratepayers Association, who threaten to withhold their payment for rates and services, we say the Municipal Manager must cut the electricity and water to any property and business that heeds such a call," Xathula added. "We also wish to call on the progressive government in charge to revisit the disconnection policy that is currently in place." According to the party, the R350 that is charged by the Metro as a reconnection fee if services are disconnected "is a ridiculous amount of money to pay and it's looting from the poor" -  a "button simply needs to be pressed by municipality officials, that's it." The DA has vowed to get Trollip back back as the Mayor of Nelson Mandela Bay through the courts. The party accused the ANC, the UDM and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) of banding together in an unholy alliance to plunder Nelson Mandela Bay through an illegal Council seating that was engineered by Eastern Cape MEC for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CogTA), Fikile Xasa. 