 The National Sea Rescue Institute (NSRI) is warning residents to still take extreme precaution along the coast for the first half of the week following a mass near-drowing incident in Port Elizabeth over the weekend. On Friday, the NSRI urged for caution around the coastline due to the Full Moon Spring Tide that peaks with the full moon. According to Ryan Meyer, NSRI Port Elizabeth duty controller, just after midday on Saturday, the NSRI Port Elizabeth duty crew and the Nelson Mandela Bay Water Emergency Rescue Network were activated following reports of multiple persons in difficulty in the surf at Cape Recife. "An NSRI rescue vehicle, NSRI rescue swimmers, Coastal Water Rescue Unit, EC Government Health EMS, the EMS Aeromed 3 helicopter, NMB Beach Office managers and lifeguards, NMB Fire and Rescue Services and the SA Police Services responded," he described. "A group of at least 80 young adults, mostly from the Nelson Mandela University (NMU) and others from surrounding areas, on what we believe is a monthly hike from Humewood to Cape Recife, on reaching Cape Recife some had gone into the water to cool off at a beach that is not patrolled by lifeguards."  Meyer said that on arrival on the scene, it was found that at least five males remained in difficulty in the water. "It appears that three males got into difficulty in the water about 300 meters out after they had waded over the reef to swim and were caught in rip currents," he said. "Four males, from the same group, had gone into the water to try to help. "One male, of the original three, who were in trouble, had reached safety and he had raised the alarm." Meyer said that a female had also waded out to try to help. "NSRI rescue swimmers found some of those still in the water were holding onto rocks and they were attempting to assist each other. NSRI rescue swimmers Jean Roussouw and Steven van den Berg entered the water and were able to assist the casualties from the water," he described. "NSRI medics initiated medical treatment and paramedics and rescue personnel took over with medical treatment, for non-fatal drowning symptoms and scrapes and bruises, on their arrival. "One male was airlifted to hospital by EMS Aeromed 3 helicopter and two males and a female were transported to hospital by EMS ambulance and they are all in stable conditions and they are expected to fully recover."  Meyer said that more people were treated for scrapes and bruises and required no further assistance. "All casualties are accounted for. It has been reported that this is a regular monthly gathering and that most in the group have been to Cape Recife in the past and are familiar with the terrain. "They are all aged in their early 20's. It is believed that all those who had been in difficulty in the surf are from NMU and locals from Port Elizabeth," he said. "The quick response of the Water Emergency Network is commended. "NSRI are urging caution around the coast with the full moon Spring Tide that will affect the coastline with stronger than normal rip currents into the first half on the new week."  Picture attached: By NSRI Port Elizabeth: Emergency Services on the scene at Cape Recif 