 The arrest of one of Bethelsdorp's most wanted suspects will ensure the finalisation of many cases. This is the word from Port Elizabeth police after the Mount Road Cluster OCC Tracing Team arrested 25-year-old Nataniel Stokes, during the early hours of Tuesday morning. "It is alleged that at about 03:30, the Tracing Team members surrounded a house in Chatty 12 in Bethelsdorp after receiving information from the public," police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu. "The suspect was seen through the window climbing into the ceiling. "When police entered the house, the suspect refused to come down. "About 20 minutes later, the suspect was apprehended." Col Naidu said that Stokes was wanted on an attempted robbery case allegedly committed in January 2015. "He is also positively linked through fingerprints to 13 other cases committed in the Bethelsdorp area. "All of these cases are housebreaking cases committed from 2015 to 2017," she added. "It is further alleged that on 1 January 2015, the complainant in the attempted robbery case was walking in Govan Mbeki Avenue when he was approached by two unknown males." Col Naidu said that one of them asked the complainant for a cigarette and when the complainant replied that he didn’t have a cigarette, a firearm and knife was produced. "The complainant managed to run away and stop a patrolling police vehicle. The suspects on seeing the police started running. "One suspect was arrested inside a shopping mall and a toy gun and knife was found in his possession," she described. "Stokes, alias Boertjie, was arrested and appeared in court in January 2015. "He was released on bail to appear again on 3 March 2015." She said that he failed to appear and a warrant for his arrest was issued. "Since then he has been on a rampage breaking into houses in the Bethelsdorp area. He will be charged on all 13 cases and will appear in the Port Elizabeth magistrates’ court on Thursday," Col Naidu said. The Acting Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Brigadier Andrew Louw, expressed his appreciation to the community for their assistance in tracing the suspect. "He also commended the tracing team for the immediate following up on the information which led to the successful arrest." 