 Relentless efforts by Port Elizabeth in the last seven months to trace and re-arrest a wanted murder accused eventually paid off when the Humewood Trio Task Team finally got their man. "On Tuesday, at about 23:30, investigating officers, D/Const Ridwaan Baatjies and D/Const John Lepan, with the assistance of PE K9 Unit surrounded a shack in Mankazana Street in Walmer location," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The accused, Zolile Mfeketho (20), was found sleeping in the shack with four other people." Mfeketho was first arrested in September 2016 for the murder of a Nelson Mandela University student, 19-year-old Asadullah Ajimudin. Ajimudin was clubbed to death with a cricket bat at his Summerstrand residence in August 2015. "Due to a bungle at court, the suspect was released in August 2017. A warrant for his arrest was issued," said Col Naidu. "The two officers had since been following up on any and all information relating to the possible whereabouts of the accused with negative results however information received resulted in the positive arrest of Mfeketho." She said Mfeketho appeared in the Port Elizabeth court on Wednesday, on the murder and robbery charge and is remanded in custody until later this month. The Acting Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Brigadier Andrew Louw, commended the team for their persistence in trying to re-arrest this accused. "Whenever information was received about the accused possible whereabouts, these members, irrespective of the day or time immediately followed through with such information. We want to thank the community for their assistance as well in working ‘hand in glove’ with the police to ensure Mfeketho’s arrest. "Active community involvement is key to the successful combatting of crime in our communities. We appeal to the communities not to harbour these criminals who have no respect for other people’s lives and property. Together we can make sure that they are arrested and behind bars where they belong," added Brig Louw. 