 The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape says it is "deeply disturbed and concerned about the well-choreographed show that was presented to a DA delegation that visited the Tower Psychiatric Hospital in Fort Beaufort on Monday". "It became clear to us that the hospital was cleaned up and prepared for the visit. "We agree with the article published in Rapport on Sunday, 11 March, in which it was reported how workers were made to clean up the facility until after midnight in preparation for a visit to the facility by Health MEC Phumza Dyantyi last week," described Celeste Barker (MPL), DA Eastern Cape Shadow MEC for Health. "The DA will not be deceived and we call on the South African Society of Psychiatrists (SASOP) to continue with their reported plans to do a thorough investigation into the true state of affairs. "We want patients to be interviewed in-depth and a full report on the state of the hospital - beyond visits from parliamentarians and other interested parties." Barker added that during the visit, together with her colleague, Patricia Kopane MP, DA Shadow Minister of Health, they met with the hospital's management team, who escorted them around the buildings. "We were taken to inspect the solitary confinement cells and assured that patients were not housed in them because they do not meet Mental Health Care standards or the standards of SASOP and the locks are broken.," she said. "We were escorted to a ward filled with state of the art new beds. Much to our surprise, we found a linen room filled with new looking garments, more sheets and clothing than I have seen in bigger hospitals and full fridges with separate storage for meat, milk, fresh produce, eggs and shelves packed with loaves of bread." Barker said that they, however, did find the following issues strange: "What was presented to the DA was fake, curated by officials of the Department of Health who put their jobs before their duties to their patients. "This is an absolute disgrace and suggests that there is a powerful pack of managers who will overwork their staff on a Sunday night because they, the managers, have neglected a group of the most vulnerable people in our province and instead embarked on window-dressing to save their skins," she added. "These actions equal the Life Esidemeni dereliction of duty. "The DA will not rest until we can honestly say that the patients at Tower Hospital are treated with dignity." 