 On Thursday, 15 March 2018, the Nelson Mandela Business Chamber, hosted a Golf Day at Wedgewood Golf Estate in Port Elizabeth. "The event expected 41 teams, consisting of a total of 164 players. Various reputable companies and public figures were attending this event," described Anton Van Wyk, Metrofile Port Elizabeth Account Manager. "Upon the hosting by the NMB Business Chamber, various companies participated in terms of sponsorships, either by way of donations or sponsorship per hole." Metrofile, as one of the Business Chambers’ affiliated companies, proudly participated and sponsored a hole to from part of the golf day. "We have had a long standing relationship with the business chamber, to form part of the intrigue role to uniform with the Chamber and other Business in the PE region, to improve and contribute, to the economic growth of the Eastern Cape, " Van Wyk added. He said that although the day started perfect, the unexpected weather conditions quickly changed the view on the event. "Torrent rainfall and extreme wind conditions, made the players and sponsors grabbing for their umbrellas and hats. Many teams and players had to retrieve to the clubhouse as play became unbearable," Van Wyk added. "Although a few brave soldiers endured the weather and continued playing, the Metrofile Gazebo made their sheltering stay the most pleasant with laughter and soothing 'melktertjies', which we like to believe improved the swinging capabilities. "After the 18-hole course, a prize giving was hosted by the NMB Business Chamber, among lucky draw prizes with a unique prize from Metrofile, acknowledging the woman in the Golf Players lives, by sponsoring an exquisite perfume to the ladies in recognition of their sacrifice, in their support to the golfers." He said that the afternoon was hosted by the newly appointed CEO of the Business Chamber, Ms. Nomkitha Mona, whom taken the lead role in December 2017. "The attendance of top business owners and CEO’s, together with our own Mayor, Mr Athol Trollip, proved to be an event of highest statue," Van Wyk said. "In all, the day was a successful business and fun event, whereby the adamant golfers indicated their ability and dedication to the art of golf and the ability to still enjoy a lovely meal in the company of fellow business partners." 