 Transnet Port Terminals (TPT) received confirmation, that the Ngqura Container Terminal (NCT) received its third consecutive year of a clean NOSA audit and five star NOSCAR rating which is a first-ever achievement for this terminal. The impressive score of 95% that was achieved is recognised as an international benchmark in the management of Occupational Health, Safety and Environmental risks. To achieve NOSCAR status an organization needs to achieve a NOSCAR score (95%) for 3 consecutive years. The NOSCAR award is also the highest rating in the NOSA system and recognizes organizations that continuously commit to providing safe and healthy work environments for employees as well as the safety of cargo handled. The award is presented annually and until now in the Eastern Cape, TPT’s car terminals in Port Elizabeth and East London have been leading the way having being recipients of NOSCAR awards for six and eleven years respectively. “We have always been proud of how well our terminals have performed in the past annual NOSA audits but this particular achievement for NCT is a real milestone and one that the NCT team can be very proud of. "The team have demonstrated first-hand over a three year period how through cohesive teamwork they have been able to embody Transnet’s values to attain and maintain a standard of safety, health, environment and quality that is beyond minimum legislative requirements. "This is paramount for us to leverage our position within the markets we serve, ultimately making us more competitive and efficient,” said Noxolo Thabatha, TPT’s NCT Terminal Manager. For a business operating in a complex and high risk environment such as TPT, it is essential to have effective safety protocols in place that are understood by all employees, in order to minimise the disruption of service to clients. “While NCT is locally based we serve international customers who use various port terminals across the world. It is therefore critical for us to provide a world-class service if we are to remain competitive in an actively competitive global environment, even in challenging situations. "The health and safety of our employees, our customers’ cargo and our equipment and infrastructure are a priority in our business. That’s why safety has been a major focus for Transnet in this past financial year. So, for NCT to have outperformed in this area by formally being acknowledged as a NOSCAR rated terminal is very rewarding,” concluded Velile Dube, TPT GM: Cape Channel. Since starting operations in 2009, the Ngqura Container Terminal has complemented the South African port system as a transhipment hub. The terminal has increased South African trade with the world, generating much needed jobs in the economy while promoting international trade for SADC countries. 