 The Port Elizabeth branch of the Business Women’s Association (BWA) of South Africa hosted their Annual General Meeting (AGM) on Thursday night at the Protea Marine Hotel in Summerstrand, Port Elizabeth. The Businesswomen's Association is the largest and most prominent association of business and professional women in South Africa, and the voice of women in business. Its Port Elizabeth Branch is one of the largest branches of the Businesswomen’s Association of South Africa, and has a reach up to Port Alfred in the East and Storms River in the West. This meeting was a rather emotional one as a new committee was appointed and Michelle Brown, of Brown’s PR service, stepped down as Chairperson and handed position over to Heather Dutton, the previous Vice-Chair of the Committee. “In the past few years in the chair, I have been honoured and privileged to be part of the most incredible team of women both locally in Port Elizabeth and nationally,” said Michelle at the meeting. The position of Vice-Chair has been filled by Lucia Mtshake, who previously held the position of the CSI/Youth Outreach committee member. “The PE branch has a very strong and credible voice nationally, and we tend to be leaders in many of the programmes that we run. We have just come back from our national strategy session in Johannesburg, and they kept alluding to us as the voice of what is happening in the BWA,” explained Michelle. “I am so very proud to be part of this active, inclusive and dynamic branch and firmly believe that there is a season and a reason. My season in the chair is now done, whilst Heather’s is about to begin. She has a very exciting journey ahead of her.” Michelle stated that while she would be leaving the position of Chairperson, she would not be leaving the BWA altogether. She said that she would continue to be a part of the PR and events task team as well as a fully engaged member. Attending the AGM as a special guest speaker was Edith Venter, of Edith Venter Promotions, since rebranded to Edith Unlimited. She has been in business since 1999 and rebranded her company in 2010. Edith has been involved in many charities throughout her career and continuously provides efficient and effective business acumen, determination and effortless style to many of this country's high profile events. She is also Patron of the Cancer Association of SA as well as an honorary Member of the Right Honourable League of Gentlemen, and a Patron of: Women in Finance. “My congratulations to Michelle to what you have achieved and built up in Port Elizabeth. I think all these women owe you a debt of gratitude and I know it’s going to live on through Heather,” said Edith. 