 The Overstrand Municipality has implemented level 1B water restrictions from Thursday, 1 March 2018, in the Greater Hermanus area (i.e. from Benguela Cove to Voëlklip). "Water tariffs will only be increased once the level of the De Bos Dam drops below 40%; De Bos Dam is currently at 46,5%," described Riana Steenekamp, Media Liaison & Social Media Officer, Management Services at the Overstrand Municipality. "Water sources in the other areas of the municipality are still at satisfactory levels, and residents can still enjoy a breather on water restrictions." Restrictions include • No washing of vehicles with any hose will be permitted. This means washing of vehicles and boats are only allowed if a bucket and cloth are used. This is not applicable to commercial car wash industries. • No washing or hosing down of hard-surfaced or paved areas with municipal drinking water is allowed. This still apply Watering of gardens, lawns and sports field (including irrigation) are still allowed with municipal drinking water twice a week, one hour per day – before 09:00 or after 17:00. -          Even numbered street addresses ONLY on Wednesdays and Sundays. -          Uneven numbered street addresses ONLY on Tuesdays and Saturdays. Watering of plants in nurseries, etc., for commercial purposes, is exempted from the water restrictions. "All well points and boreholes must be registered at the office of the area manager(s) and consumers must ensure that they display the appropriate signage to this effect; clearly visible from a public thoroughfare," Steenekamp said. She said that if you fail to comply, the municipality can; • issue a compliance notice to the consumer • Issue a fine in terms of the Municipal Water By-law • discontinue or limit water supply to the household Water misuse and leakage can be reported to 028 313 8000/8111 or 028 313 8996. Residents or businesses that want to apply for exemption can contact Adenel Bayley on tel. 028 313 8972 or via e-mail to depdircomsec@overstrand Make a difference: 