 A Task Team comprising of Detectives, Crime Intelligence and Visible Policing members has been established in Mthatha to trace and arrest the suspect/s involved in the murder of a 40-year-old taxi driver, who was fatally wounded by unknown gunmen at Riverside near Corhana Locality on the R61 road on Friday night. "It is alleged that the deceased was ferrying passengers from Ntlaza to Mthatha when he was stopped by a white Toyota Corolla with no registration numbers. "Four unknown baraclava clad assailants fired several shots at him killing him instantly. "All the passengers and his conductor escaped unhurt. Spent cartridges from a 9mm pistol were picked from the scene," said police spokesperson, Captain Dineo Koena. She added that in another incident, a 37-year-old taxi owner from Northcrest taxi rank was fatally wounded by unknown gunmen at Maqanyeni locality Sibangweni Administrative Area. "The incident took place on Friday, at about 19:00. "It is alleged that the deceased, his counterpart and his wife were attacked whilst travelling together on the N2 road from Durban to Mthatha during their attack," Captain Koena said. "The deceased who was a passenger died at the scene whilst his counterpart fled the scene and his wife was rushed to hospital in a critical condition." She said that another 36-year-old man, who was a passenger in a taxi was shot and killed by unknown assailants at Riverside near Corhana locality on the N2 on Friday, at about 20:00. "It is alleged that the taxi that was ferrying passengers from Mthatha to Gxulu locality in Libode was attacked and the passenger and the taxi conductor were rushed to Ngangelizwe clinic where the the passenger succumbed to the injuries and the conductor was rushed to hospital in a critical condition," Captain Koena described. All the incidents are associated with taxi violence that is happening in Mthatha. Police are investigating murder and attempted murder cases. "We condemn the attacks and murders of people and urge the taxi groups to find ways to resolve their disputes amicably. We appeal to the taxi people to come to us as police when they have a misunderstanding so that we sit together and solve it," said the Acting Cluster Commander Brigadier, Nomawethu Makonza. "No arrest yet and we urge anyone with information to contact Captain Xolile Mdepa on 0823198754 or may contact Crime Stop Line on 0860010111 and the information will be treated as confidential." 