 The Cluster Commander for SAPS Mount Road, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, applauded the excellent efforts of the men and women in blue as they continued in their endeavours in ’taking back the streets’ from criminals and gaining public confidence from the communities they serve. Over the weekend, five firearms and five suspects were arrested for illegal/prohibited possession of firearms and ammunition. "Four firearms recovered and three suspects were arrested in Helenvale alone while another suspect was arrested and firearm recovered in Kabega Park," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naid. "A suspect was also arrested in the Walmer location on Friday evening while police were patrolling. He was found in possession of ammunition." She said that on Saturday, three firearms were seized and three suspects arrested in separate incidents. "At about 11:00, Gelvandale police were responding to a shooting incident in Helenvale when they saw two males running," Col Naidu also said. "The members were quick and arrested both males and recovered two revolvers." At about 13:15, members from PE Flying Squad were responding to a complaint of a group of suspicious males standing at the corners of Standford and Old Stanford Roads in Gelvandale. "On approaching the group, police suspected them to be gang members. While busy with them, one person had a 9mm firearm and dropped it," she said. "The community started hurling stones at police and the group. "A 24 year old gang affiliate was arrested with a 9mm firearm and ammunition. "He was detained on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition." Maj Gen Patekile said; "One firearm out of the hands of criminals is a victory. Our members will continue to exert pressure in order to eradicate crime and force out criminal elements from their comfort zones. We are not afraid of them and with the assistance of other law enforcement agencies we will continue to breath down their necks as we move towards fulfilling our mandate of ensuring that the communities are and feel safe." 