 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Nelson Mandela Bay on Tuesday welcomed a former Democratic Alliance (DA) councillor for Ward 1, Stanford Slabbert, who has since joined the party after being dismissed from DA for alleged racism. With his experience as a Councillor, Slabbert is now expected to mentorthe party's young candidate for the Ward, Siviwe Ngaba, if he wins the by-election happening on Wednesday. While Slabbert was fired from the DA in 2013 for allegedly distributing a racist e-mail about former President Jacob Zuma and the ANC, Slabbert said he wants to help create a City that lives by the values of the late former President, Nelson Mandela, whom the City is named after . The ANC hopes to use Slabbert to boost its campaign for their Ward 1 ‘young and fresh’ candidate, Siviwe Ngaba Speaking to the media, Slabbert said that he was very happy to work with Ngaba to ensure that he understands issues affecting residents in Ward 1. “I would like to import my knowledge and experience in the Ward; it is a very big and challenging Ward. “With the changes in the ANC, I think that there is going to be some kind of political force that will attract a lot of people, with the new President of the ANC and the new guidance that he will be giving the other leaders of the ANC and I think that it is going to attract a lot of people," he said. “I am happy to be someone, who will be able to stand up and say that I am part of that change and continue to help more Siviwe’s." Slabbert further encouraged local residents to be part of the new and strong ANC. At the media briefing, it emerged that Thembelani Kondile, previously with the Congress of the People (COPE), and Maxwell Sibongile Vatala, previously with the United Democratic Movement (UDM), were also joining the ANC. According to ANC Nelson Mandela Bay Acting Chairman, Phumzile Tshuni, the DA-led coalition is not a solution to address problems that are faced by local residents, which is why many have decided to go back to the ANC. Tshuni said that there are many opposition members, who have since decided to join the ANC - and that gives Ngaba a better chance of winning the Ward 1 by-election on Wednesday. Image: From left: Stanford Slabbert; ANC Bay acting Chairman, Phumzile Tshuni, and Siviwe Ngaba. 