 The Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) on Thursday announced the appointment of seasoned planner and delivery specialist, Maartje Weyers, to provide capacity and leadership in accelerating key projects. MBDA Chief Executive Officer, Ashraf Adam, says “the recent changes in leadership and strategic priorities over the last year at the MBDA have had the unfortunate result of delaying various key projects and hampering the Agency’s performance. "The decisions the Board have made and interventions such as Maartje’s short term appointment to lead Operations till the end of the current financial year (30 June 2018) are aimed at clawing back lost ground and adding capacity to deliver on the Agency’s ambitious 2018/2019 plans”. He added; “Weyers will work closely with the engine room of the MBDA which is the Planning and Development unit as well as the Operations team.” About Maartje Weyers Ms Maartje Weyers holds a B Art et Science Degree in Town and Regional Planning from the University of North West. She is registered as a Professional Planner at the South African Council for Planners (SACPLAN), serves on the Appeal Board of SACPLAN and is a corporate member at the South African Planning Institute (SAPI), SAPI National Board Member and SAPI Chairperson of the EC Western Region and further serves as the Chairperson of the Municipal Planning Tribunal of the Koukamma Local Municipality. Maartje’s career path includes 22 years of Professional Planning in both the Public and Private environments. Maartje gained 12 years’ municipal planning experience whilst working at the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality and Nelson Mandela Metropolitan Municipality at the Customer Care Centres of Edenvale, Alberton and Kempton Park areas. Maartje furthered her career in private practice, worked 7 years for AECOM (previously known as Khuthele Projects and BKS) in the Eastern Cape Region, Port Elizabeth Office, and participated in the delivery of multi- disciplinary projects in various Provinces of South Africa in the fields of Town and Transportation Planning and Project Management. In 2015 Maartje established her own free- lance consultancy business in the Planning field trading as Route2EC. Maartje has gained extensive experience in the field of Town and Regional Planning and its integration with projects in the wider Built Environment. These include the various layers of Land Use Planning such as the Development of Land Use Management Policies, Spatial and Local Spatial Development Frameworks including Precinct Plans; Land Use Management Applications (such as DFA applications, Township establishment and rezoning applications), Integrated Transport Planning; Project Management; Mentorship and Office Management. Maartje has well developed communication, planning and organizational skills with a passion towards serving her clients and the community within the environment Town and Regional Planning field offers. Image: MBDA CEO, Ashraf Adam (left), welcomes Maartje Weyers. 