 Update: The motion of no confidence in Mayor Trollip has been postponed following chaos and disruptions in the Council Chamber. Apparently, the Speaker, Jonathan Lawack, has been called aside for discussions over the situation. Meanwhile, police are monitoring the situation as there many opposition supporters still protesting near the venue. It's not yet clear whether the motions will still be heard today. Chaos broke out at the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's crucial Council Meeting on Thursday morning after tensions rose as Councillors debated the future of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor Athol Trollip. The meeting had to be adjourned with none of the motions to remove Trollip, Council Chief Whip, Werner Senekal, and the Speaker of the Council, Jonathan Lawack and all MayCo members of the Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition, tabled. This was after several disagreements between opposition parties and Lawack, which started as soon as the Council meeting started. After a prayer session, Lawack announced that motion one be tabled afterwhich, former Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Deputy Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, asked for an adjournment of 20 minutes for the opposition to discuss the motions and the agenda. The Speaker refused after the Chief Whip said that the agenda was sent to everyone in the council. However, Cllr Zilindile Vena of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) argued otherwise and emphasized that the 20 minutes must be given to them. After long arguments in the council, Lawack finally agreed to give them 15 minutes. However, after the ending of their caucus, members of the public came in, including the leader of the DA, Mmusi Maimane, who was involved in a scuffle right before he could sit on his chair. Apparently, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC for Transport, Rano Kayser, had gotten into misunderstanding with an EFF Councilor. More chaos occurred in the council while many people started to film the argument between Maimane and a man, Ludwe Ntoni. Bobani then came to Ntoni's aid saying that he was his bodyguard. The leader of the African Independent Congress (AIC), Tshonono Buyeye entered a few minutes later and as he passed by Maimane, he stood and whispered something to his ear while making unpleasant gestures. The councillors started to shout and Bobani referred to Rule 37 and asked for the removal of Maimane because he was apparently being “violent” in the Council Chamber.  More chaos occurred until Lawack, stood up and left, leaving all Councillor’s, members of the media and members of the public confused. That was when singing and dancing broke out in the Chamber in the absence of the Speaker so that Councillors could carry on with the agenda. Lawack has since returned to the Chamber. Meanwhile, the EFF supporters are camped outside the City Hall in support of the motion to remove Trollip. Former Minister, Fikile Mbalula is at the Council Meeting. A local pastor was also kicked out of the meeting after repeatedly participating in the arguements between Councillors. 