 This month is an important reminder of South Africans’ human rights, and rightfully so. But, if there is one thing that the South African consumer should also take note of is, that World Consumer Rights Day is celebrated on the 15th of March. Consumers are primarily responsible to not only make sure they protect their human and consumer rights, but to also guarantee their right to a debt-free future. How do they enable their way to a financially-free future exactly? According to Matthys Potgieter, spokesperson and debt expert at DebtSafe, South Africans should know what their consumer rights entail for them to ensure themselves a debt-free future. The National Credit Regulator (NCR) outlines various consumer rights in terms of the National Credit Act (NCA). Consumers have the right to: o   “Debt counselling is the preferred method to get out of debt, rather than sequestration or administration,” says Potgieter. o   Each debt counselling firm is unique in the manner in which they handle their clients’ statutory and procedural requirements. o   Debt Counsellors provide various skills and services to make sure clients attain their Clearance Certificate(Form 19 in terms of the National Credit Act) at the end of the debt counselling process. o   The tasks involved, can include the following: consolidating debt into one affordable instalment, giving clients cash flow relief from their next paycheques, dealing with credit providers and potential harassment, implementing a reasonable payment plan and clearing clients debt history from credit bureaus. o   Regarding fees - debt counselling fees are regulated by the National Credit Regulator. Debt Counsellors cannot simply charge what they want. o   Debt counselling has a rehabilitative spirit. The whole aim is to get the client credit active again, but, in a responsible manner. Many clients who completed the debt counselling process applied for credit with great success. o   A former DebtSafeand now debt-free client admits: “In the beginning the process was hard but then it became easier.”Managing debt does not happen with the-snap-of-a-finger, but “through commitment and keeping up with the negotiated payments, consumers can become debt-free,” highlights Potgieter. South Africans have the right to a debt-free future. If a consumer finds him/herself in an unavoidable over-indebted position, debt counsellors are here to assist in attaining a so-desperately-needed debt-free life. Consumers can contact DebtSafe’s efficient debt counselling advisors for assistance. They have the right to do so, so why waste time? 