 Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner Lt Gen Ntshinga has strongly condemned recent attacks on police officers in two incidents that are under investigation. “Anyone, who attacks a police officer or damage state property will face the full might of the law. The SAPS will not be deterred by these types of attacks on our members including damage to state and private property. We will not tolerate any provocation of police officers especially when they are performing their duties ,” said Lt Gen Ntshinga. According to the police, on Tuesday, in Barracuda Crescent, Tiryville, Kamesh, police officials were busy executing a search warrant at the residential address of a well-known drug peddler when members of the community initially started to verbally abuse the members. "This action escalated and the community members then started throwing stones at the police members and their vehicles. No member of the SAPS was injured, however several state vehicles were damaged," police said. "The members successfully executed their mandate and 50kg of dagga, worth R50 0000 was seized from the premises." A case of dealing in dagga as well as Malicious damage to property has been registered for investigation. "We are fortunate that none of our police officials sustained any injuries but four of our police vehicles were damaged and this will impact negatively on our efforts to improve service delivery. We will not tolerate any threats or actions by any individual or groups who work against any official who is executing our official. "We WILL continue to act against any perpetrator who attempts to prevent us from doing our job. The police have a constitutional mandate of preventing and combatting crime, including investigation, maintenance of public order and protection of the inhabitants of South Africa and their property," said added Lt Gen Ntshinga. "In execution of our duties, we will not allow anyone to be an obstacle and an impediment in our work and we will have no option but to charge anyone who commits himself/herself in such a manner with defeating the ends of justice", added Lt Gen Ntshinga. "Police will continue to conduct operations to rid these areas of illegal substances and criminal activities. We will also intensify our operations to curb drug peddling.". In another incident, in Libode, police responded to an alleged shooting where a taxi had been shot at while off-loading passengers at Vezamandla stop Libode near Gxulu and the suspected vehicle fled towards Port St Johns. "A a 24 year old male driver was fatally wounded and certified dead on the scene during this attack. "Police responded and sent a Tracking team in search of a grey Polo that was alleged to have been utilised during the attack but unfortunately, the team were attacked by a group of men and community members accusing them of being responsible for the previous taxi attack when they stopped at the scene," police said. "During the attack two police sergeants were injured and sustained stab wounds. One of the stabbing victims managed to draw his firearm and fatally wounded a 28 year old man. Both policemen were taken to hospital where they received medical attention and are reportedly in a stable condition. "Whilst expert investigators were at the scene, it was discovered that a state firearm was stolen during the attack. Several cases including murder, attempted murder and robbery are being investigated." Police are urging anyone with information to share it with the police anonymously or report it to the nearest police station or to Crime Stop on 08600 10111 and Crime Line 32211. 