 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, who faces an Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) sponsored motion of no confidence against him on the 6th April, has since written an open letter to EFF leader, Julius Malema. Addressing journalists on Wednesday, Trollip explained that he had decided to make the letter an open one after Malema publicly announced their intentions to remove him as Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayor. Trollip said that Malema made a mistake by his announcement as he once endorsed the change that was to be brought by the Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition government to the Bay. After failing to clinch an outright win in the Nelson Mandela Bay, the DA was forced to enter into various coalitions with several smaller parties in order to be able to out-vote the African National Congress (ANC). The EFF did not formally join the coalition, but promised it would lend its vote to the DA in order to keep the ANC from running the Metro. “Nothing has changed, the only thing that has changed is Julius’ mindset and attitude towards the whole situation,” he described. “He said that they have chosen the better devil between the DA and the ANC and now he is changing his position again.” Trollip said that he doesn’t believe that Malema has even been in the Bay to find out from local residents if they would like the city to be handed back to the ANC. “Malema made a mistake in Parliament and I wanted people to see what is happening in front of the scenes not behind the scenes,” he added. He also added that the small political parties that have since announced that they will be supporting the EFF motion against him will be writing their own obituaries by joining the EFF and advised that they tread carefully if they want to survive in South African politics. “To Julius Malema, I am appealing to him that we may talk to each other.” He appealed to Malema to have a cool heads as leaders of political organisations and talk about errors as well as work out ways to correct those errors. Trollip explained that the main purpose of writing the letter was to invite Malema to come to NMB. Read the full letter HERE. 