 After reaching new heights in the corporate world, even becoming one of only a few female Dealer Principals in the cut-throat world of car sales, Port Elizabeth businesswoman, Tracy Weise, tells RNEWS that she has since decided to leave it all and pursue a career in politics. She will be contesting in Wednesday's Ward 1 by-election as the Democratic Alliance's (DA) candidate. “I believe that the Ward deserves a Councillor that is available and focused on the Ward, I have therefore resigned from my current position in the motor retail industry and intend to pursue a full time political career,” she said. Weise, 30, has lived in Port Elizabeth for most of her life and is the daughter of former DA Nelson Mandela Bay caucus leader, Leon De Villiers. She joined the DA in early 2000. “Having come from a politically-active family, I have always intended at some stage to make the transition from corporate to political," she described. “I am fully aware of the issues experienced by many of the Ward 1 residents. I have a strong proven track record in the corporate environment and intend to replicate this in the public sector." The DA previously held the Ward, which was won by its former Councillor, Rashied Adams, in the 2016 Local Government Elections. It became vacant when the party dismissed Adams last year. Weise told RNEWS that she has been engaging with residents over the last month, and with the full support of the DA team, she has no doubt that the party will retain the Ward during Wednesday's vote. She added that the fact that the DA has a track record in the Ward will play in its favour. The party cannot afford to lose the Ward as it needs all the support it can get ahead of a motion of no confidence that will be tabled by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) against Nelson Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, in April. Weise said that she will bring her wealth of experience from the corporate world into her new career. “I have been extremely lucky to have experienced a successful corporate career with a vast array of experience. “I was privileged to be awarded various business awards such as the BWA Corporate Business Woman of the Year, MISA Regional finalist and PEBC Top 40, Under 40. There is no doubt that the experience I have gained in the corporate world will assist me greatly in a political career,” she described. “Voters in Ward 1 have a chance to send a strong message that they want the DA-led coalition government to keep making progress in Nelson Mandela Bay. "So, I am urging all Ward 1 residents to cast their vote at their voting district between 7:00 and 21:00 tomorrow, 7 March." DA Eastern Cape leader, Nqaba Bhanga, said that the DA is ready for the elections and confident that they will retain the Ward  because Summerstrand is their support base. “We will get support from our people because we are doing very well in the Nelson Mandela Bay at the moment. “Our candidate has a corporate background. She is professional and she understands the dynamics of the city," he described. “We have a strong campaign and we expect voters to go out on Wednesday to vote for us because we are capable, responsible leadership and our people should trust in the candidate that we chose." 