 A police officer was seriously injured on Monday morning after being involved in a vehicle accident with a drunk driver. According to police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, at about 05:45 on Monday, Detective Captain Deon Gerber, Crime Office Commander at Motherwell police station, was on his way to the police station, driving a Ford Ranger bakkie. "On the R335, close to the Motherwell grave yard, an uncoming VW Amarok overtook a black VW Golf and collided head on with the police vehicle," he described. "The 49 year old driver of the Amarok, belonging to Fidelity Guards, also collided with the VW Golf. "When police arrived a breathalyser test was done and the driver was found to be almost three times over the legal alcohol limit. "He was uninjured during the accident and was placed under arrest for drunken driving and reckless and negligent driving and formal blood samples taken." Captain Beetge said that the four passengers in the Golf was taken to the Motherwell Clinic for slight injuries. "However, Captain Gerber was pinned down in the police vehicle and needed to be extracted using the jaws of life equipment. "He was taken to Greenacres Hospital and later transferred to Mercantile Hospital with suspected internal injuries. He is in a stable condition awaiting an operation," Captain Beetge added. "In a bizarre twist, his police owned laptop was stolen from the vehicle by suspects before police arrived and while he was still pinned down in the vehicle wreck." By 11:00 two suspects, aged 31 and 37 years old, were arrested by Flying Squad members after the suspects attempted to sell the stolen laptop at a second hand store in Sidwell. "They were also found in possession of a stolen Toyota Conquest vehicle and were charged for being in possession of stolen property as well as the stolen vehicle," he added. "They will appear before the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court while the 49-year-old drunk driving suspect will appear before the Motherwell Magistrate's Court on Tuesday on their respective charges against them." 