 International Relations and Cooperation Minister Lindiwe Sisulu has called on the international community not to panic over the Parliamentary process on land reform. “There is no need to panic or be alarmist,” said Minister Sisulu in a statement on Sunday, reacting to a number of international organizations and individuals commenting on the parliamentary processes. Last week’s resolution by Members of Parliament to assign the Constitutional Review Committee to review Section 25 of the Constitution, which speaks to allowing land expropriation without compensation and the right of property ownership was passed. Section 25(2) of the Constitution currently states that property may be expropriated only in terms of law of general application for a public purpose or in the public interest, and subject to compensation. Section 25(3) makes clear that the amount of the compensation and the time and manner of payment must be just and equitable, reflecting an equitable balance between the public interest and the interests of those affected, having regard to all relevant circumstances, in the current use of the property; the history of the acquisition and use of the property; the market value of the property; the extent of direct state investment and subsidy in the acquisition and beneficial capital improvement of the property. The resolution has now be referred to the Constitutional Review Committee, which must report back to Parliament by 30 August. Minister Sisulu said the matter is being handled properly for the benefit of all South Africans and that the views and concerns of all South African stakeholders will be considered during the Parliamentary processes. The Minister added that Parliament will take a decision for the benefit of all South Africans. “There is a parliamentary process underway and all stakeholders, domestic and international, must respect that process and also take advantage of that process to make their input. The President remains committed to engaging all stakeholders during this process. "The international community played an important role in the fight against apartheid and all its repressive and discriminatory policies. We invite members of the international community to continue supporting our efforts to reverse the legacy of apartheid,” Minister Sisulu added. – SAnews.gov.za 