 The Pan Africanist Congress (PAC) of Azania in the Eastern Cape is remembering the life of Robert Mangaliso Sobukwe, who was a prominent activist and founded the PAC in opposition to apartheid. According to the Eastern Cape PAC Spokesperson, Ndiyakholwa Ngqulu, in February 2017 they handed over the remains of 14 of their soldiers from Bhaziya to their families for reburial. This month, the PAC, in partnership with the Department of Justice and other stakeholders, will again be hosting the same programme for the reburial of activists, who were executed at Pretoria prison. Arrangements are underway for the handover event. Ngqulu said that several events have also been lined up to commemorate Sobukwe in the Eastern Cape Province and the nation at large. “Across the length and breadth of the country, as Africanists, we mark and celebrate the rich intellectual and revolutionary legacy that Prof bequeathed us. “As we remember Sobukwe, our hearts bleed for Africa as we experience the unfortunate carnage of brother against brother as witnessed by the brutal killing of the African police and the retaliation on the lumpenproletariat in the cult church of Ngcobo,” he said. “This is a stark reminder of what landlessness and social degradation have done to our people. We continue to call for peace amongst Africans.” Ngqulu said that in accordance with the PAC leadership, will organise and attend events organized in honour of Sobukwe across the province. “On the 26th of February, both the University of Fort Hare and the Nelson Mandela Municipality held seminars and lectures in honour of Sobukwe. These were attended by the PAC leadership, led by Eastern Cape Provincial Chairperson, Dalalsile, and Secretary, Sandla Goqwana,” he added. “On Saturday, 3 March, the PAC will host a Sobukwe commemoration in Alice. “In times of VAT increases; the poor becoming poorer and no tax increases against big corporations - what would have Sobukwe done ’join us in celebrating his life’. “Lastly, when we have finally had the first step towards the realization of free education that Sobukwe said ‘education is a service to Africa’ we remember all those #FeeMustFall activists with pending cases and we plead with both President Cyril Ramaphosa and Minister Hlengiwe Mkhize to withdraw criminal charges on black students.” 