 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape has strongly condemned police action, which resulted in the death of a 62-year-old man, Thembekile Fana, during a protest for service delivery at Keiskammahoek in the Amahlathi Municipality on Monday. "What is disheartening and painful is for the police killing to happen during Human Rights Month, when as a country we should be celebrating human rights as enshrined in our country's constitution . "Furthermore it is the duty of the police to protect citizens when they exercise their constitutional right to protest against any level of government, as there can be no government that can justly claim authority, unless it is based on the will of the people," the party said. "Disciplinary action must be taken against those responsible for this senseless violent attack on an innocent old man and a criminal investigation must commence. We view the decision by the Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) to investigate this matter as a positive development." The ANC said that the issues raised in the petition by the Keiskammahoek protesters are genuine and need to be acted upon as soon as yesterday by the Amahlathi Municipality . "We must ask ourselves questions whether people in strategic positions are fit for the purposes of good, clean and accountable governance of our municipalities. "It is time to up your game. The choice before us is clear: either you are prepared to take the hard decisions and discharge your duties as elected public representatives or municipal officials in accordance with your respective mandates, or you face the consequences for poor performance. As the ANC, we have already demonstrated that we are not afraid to act," the party said. "Our communities must see harsh consequences for non-performance on Mayors and Councils, this is in the interest of the people whom we are all supposed to serve. "ANC remains extremely intolerant and opposed to this blatant disregard for municipal systems and ethical governance. This should serve as a reminder to all our deployed cadres about the importance of serving our people and leading the institutions of governance in dignified manner." It said that in its 2016 Local Government Election Manifesto, the ANC made a firm undertaking to give exemplary leadership and lead on clean governance. "We wish to encourage the provincial government and Cogta to always act firm, decisive and urgently against wrong doing in all ANC led municipalities in our province." The party said ANC Eastern Cape Provincial Chairperson, Comrade Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, on Tuesday went to Keiskammahoek where he addressed the community and received the petition listed with community demands. Provincial Secretary, Lulama Ngcukayitobi, apparently also paid a courtesy visit to the Fana family on Wednesday to offer condolences on their loss . "We send our heartfelt condolences to the Fana family, friends and the community of Lower Gxulu at Keiskammahoek." 