 Located in the Noorse Kloof Nature Reserve, there are very few accommodation offerings in Jeffreys Bay that rival Dolphin View Guesthouse in terms of its tranquil and picturesque location - not far from Jeffrey’s Bay’s famous white, sandy beaches. It’s not just surfing that happens in Jeffreys Bay; this coastal town is a key commercial and tourism centre in the Eastern Cape. Thus, there is a lot of business exchanging hands in this small town. For business executives travelling to the town or passing through and in need a place to rest, I recommend a stay at Dolphin View Guesthouse. Offering free Wi-Fi throughout the guesthouse, as well as ironing facilities and laundry services on requests, Dolphin View Guesthouse also has working desks in most of their rooms and are flexible with their check-in and breakfast times. Ideal for corporates on a business trip. There are six comfortably-appointed suites to choose from. The Premier Room, aptly called the Dolphin Suite is spacious and comes with a large bed, clean en-suite bathroom, private lounge, DSTV, and a sun-bathed balcony and sitting room overlooking the Nature Reserve and the Indian Ocean. I stayed in the Dolphin Suite and it was an experience for someone tired from a long journey. There are two Deluxe Rooms – called the Ocean and Sunset Room, which also come with amenities to make your stay comfortable and overlook the reserve, gardens and the ocean. You can still choose to stay in their Standard Budget Room, also called the Whale Room. It overlooks the reserve, gardens and ocean and offers many of the facilities found in the other suites. Those travelling with kids will be happy to know that Dolphin View has two Family Rooms, called the Seaster and Garden Unit. The units provide comfortable family rooms with en-suite bathrooms, a kitchenette, outside seating areas as well as BBQ facilities. I also noted how Anita, the owner, warmly welcomes guests to the establishment. Her friendliness made me feel right at home. Dolphin View Guesthouse is situated away from Jeffery’s Bay’s city centre, but still close enough to go out for dinner at one of the local restaurants. Upon returning to my suite, I pampered myself with a full, hot bath. I woke up the next morning, complete rejuvenated and ready to meet clients and customers. I must add that the sight of the sun emerging from the ocean on the horizon was quiet an amazing. Afterwards, I made my way to the dining area – which is adjacent the main indoor pool, where I had an amazing home-cooked breakfast. As is the norm at Dolphin View Guesthouse, Anita prepared the best Full English Breakfast I have had at a guesthouse. There was tasty bacon, eggs, sausage and toast, muffins, yoghurt and cereal among other things to prepare me for my day. I ended up having a little bit of everything and completed my meal with a refreshing cup of filter coffee. Sadly, I had to say my goodbye’s – but not before determining that I will always stay at Dolphin View Guesthouse when I am visiting J-Bay for business. To make a booking, call Anita on 042 296 0594 or 072 237 7422 or email: dolphinviewguesthouse@gmail.com. 