 Hotel accommodation can be one of the significant expenses of your trips whether casual or business. However, know that you never need to overpay for a hotel room if you follow these insider tricks. Look for combo packs on flight and hotel booking Often when you bundle up the hotel booking and flight booking, there are strong possibilities to land on attractive deals that can save you significantly. Sign up for the loyalty programs When you sign up for the loyalty programs of hotels, you get to enjoy upgrades free of cost. Some of the essential components of loyalty programs include best price guarantee, free Wi-Fi, access to some exclusive facilities, experiences and events, free items or free nights offered with bookings. Some loyalty programs are also offered through third party websites. Sign up to receive price drop alerts When you lack time to keep track on the best offers, it is always good to sign up for alerts on price drops offered through some websites. This facility will take care of the work and intimate you when the prices drop. Being an influencer is an advantage Let the hotels know you are an influencer if it is the case. If you are an active member in the rating websites like Yelp or TripAdvisor, you get to benefit from some rebates. If not, at least the hotel will come forward to make your trip a special one. Keep track when the prices go up or drop If you are not very particular about a particular destination, you can check the hotel price index on some reputed hotel booking sites. In these locations you will get the information when the prices increase or drop. Usually these results depend on the bookings made through the website and the prices the customers pay per room including the fees and taxes. Install some apps Some hotel booking apps give access to some very attractive discounts. Some apps let you benefit from the last minute discounts on rooms. In some cases, you can get cheap rooms on peak times and weekends. Book a room at a new property When you book a room at new hotels, you might land on low prices. This is because the hotels would be very keen to attract customers by giving them a real experience to stay at affordable prices. Make use of discount coupons Often people tend to overlook the importance of using coupon codes while booking for hotel rooms. Discount coupons provide you discounts on hotel rooms and flight bookings. Mention if it is a special occasion If you are booking on a wedding day or birthday or some special event, you can make a mention of it since some hotels might have some discount offers to attract such customers. Some other benefits you might get by doing so include some extra amenities or free upgrades. Look for ways to earn points Various hotels offer opportunities to earn points while using a particular taxi company, shopping at some designated placesFree Articles, referring friends and others. Make use of such avenues to earn points which you can redeem through discounted booking. 