 The official launch of SAICA Enterprise Development took place on Tuesday. A wholly owned subsidiary of The Hope Factory NPC, which is consolidated into the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants (SAICA). The sole purpose of this entity is to play an active role in economic transformation in South Africa, through advancing the sustainable growth of entrepreneurial Black businesses (as defined by the B-BBEE Codes). As part of the responsible leadership objectives, SAICA remains committed to the National Development Plan of rallying behind a united vision for South Africa’s development. One of the key focuses of which is to increase entrepreneurial interest and enhance Black SMMEs’ ability to become sustainable businesses. Only through the increase of sustainable SMMEs will new employment opportunities be created. SAICA Enterprise Development offers flagship and customised Enterprise and Supplier Development programmes (previously housed under The Hope Factory) and Accounting Support Initiatives. Socio-Economic Development offerings remains under The Hope Factory. Says CEO of SAICA Enterprise Development, Annie McWalter, “We are thrilled to have launched SAICA Enterprise Development. Developing SMMEs is our passion and expertise, and we look forward to partnering with SAICA’s Small Medium Practices (SMPs) to achieve financial excellence in the SMME sector.” Guest speaker ThakhaniMakhuvha, CEO of the Small Enterprise Finance Agency (sefa) says, “Our partnership with SAICA is one of the longest serving relationships since the establishment of sefa in 2012. The launch of SAICA Enterprise Development is a consolidation of all its Enterprise Development activities. We believe that this is a great move as it will enable the institute to have a focused approach when delivering the much needed business development support services to SMMEs.” Says Fanisa Lamola, Executive Director for Corporate Services at SAICA, “We firmly believe that greater heights will be conquered by bringing together on one platform the wealth of knowledge of our SMP members, the experiences from The Hope Factory and the Enterprisation journey travelled, and the working relationship already established with our partners. This we believe is what will make SAICA Enterprise Development (Pty) Ltd a success.” 