 Back in 1996, Dynamic Commodities (DC) opened its doors, in Nelson Mandela Bay supplying locally-farmed food products to both the local and international markets. “DC started as a business in 1996 supplying just empty fruit shells to Japan. The fruit shells were filled in Japan by an ice cream maker there,” Adrian Vardy, the company’s CEO told RNEWS. Now, 22 years later, they have firmly situated themselves in the heart of the Coega IDZ, and have since seen a huge increase in their workforce in a region that is generally regarded as having one of the country’s highest unemployment figures. “DC has deep roots in local communities. We source over 90% of all our raw materials from farms in the Eastern Cape. All our staff is situated in the Eastern Cape,” explained Vardy. They offer work opportunities to between 600 – 1000 local residents. This is a seasonal figure that mostly depends on fruit packing demands. “Everything we do requires a lot of labour. This is not a popular approach; we see most businesses trying desperately to reduce labour. One of our core drives is to create jobs and be a force for social good in the Eastern Cape,” said Vardy. “We have a team of ordinary people who produce extraordinary results. We take pride in being a unique and independent company that competes successfully with ‘big food’ in many developed markets. As a result of all these factors, many of our products are very hard to replicate,” explained Vardy. Dynamic Commodities provides ongoing skills training around the specific needs for their business. Many of their employees have been trained in food safety, HACCP, cleaning and sanitation, machinery operation, canning, fork lift driving and more. It is well-known for their delicious range of fruit sorbets and gelatos that are served in natural fruit shells, their wide range of frozen fruits that are grown in the Eastern Cape – orange segments, grapefruit segments, lemon segments and pineapple pieces that are exported to Japan, France and Belgium. They also supply canned piquant peppers to customers in Germany. “Generally PE is a very good place for a business such as ours. We are in the middle of an amazing fruit basket and have access to great fruits and very competent farmers. There is one small downside; it’s tough to get qualified people with food experience to move from the Western Cape to PE,” explained Vardy. Recently, in order to engage with the surrounding community as well as with their very own workforce, the Company has donated R30 000 in digital equipment to the Ndyebo Senior Secondary School Grade 12 Class as part of Phase one of their CSI programme. Phase two aims on providing tutoring to said Grade 12 students in order to assist in upskilling them to be ready to take on tertiary education opportunities or begin a career in the working world. “Retaining expertise within our Metro, as well as providing avenues for those young people residing within the area to have a chance at achieving better grades, that will equip them for further studies or working initiatives, is vital to our Company,” said Vardy. He stated that it was part of staying within the game that drove Dynamic Commodities to use Local innovation, for Global reach. For more information on Dynamic Commodidities and the products they produce visit their website at www.dynamicfood.com 