 Two men were sentenced to 309 years imprisonment plus three life sentences after the Johannesburg High Court found them guilty on 33 charges including three counts of murder, seven of house breaking with the intent to rob and robbery with aggravating circumstances and five counts attempted murder. The were handed down to against Jansen Jan Jimmy (34) and Lakay Stephen Small (38). According to the police, the accused and other accomplices committed these crimes between 2015 and 2016 before they were arrested. "The modus operandi was to break into their victims' homes during, which the home owners were threatened with firearms. "In most cases the victims were shot multiple times. Three of their victims, aged 23 to 67, were shot and killed by the accused. Five were shot and injured. One of the victims was shot 16 times and succumbed to his injuries on the scene," said Sgt Tshepiso Mashele, Spokesperson of West Rand Cluster. "These accused terrorised the community of Muldersdrift area in Nooitgedacht until one of the victims spotted them in Diepsloot. "On the 6th of July 2016, the victim notified the police." He said that Sergeant Molefi Samuel Manana and Constable Bambiso of Muldersdrift SAPS responded swiftly and arrested the first suspect. "They worked tirelessly to arrest the second suspect with the assistance of a source. "Sergeant Manana was assigned to investigate these cases. With the assistance of his colleague Constable Bambiso they immediately put their experience to the test and bail was successfully denied when they appeared at court," Sgt Mashele. The sentence was handed down by Judge Monama on Monday while Advocate Du Plooy prosecuted on behalf of the State. West Rand Cluster Commander Major General Kekana applauded Sergeant Manana for his willingness to go the extra mile to ensure that justice is served to the families affected by these senseless crimes. "He showed positive character, diligence committed and passion for his work during the trial of this case. The member showed that he can work under pressure and still do the best work to serve the community," said the General.  