 Travel can be expensive. There are numerous expenses such as flight costs, taxi services, food, and hotel accommodation costs. Yet there are many ways to save on expenses. For instance, you can rent a car to get around. It will be cheaper than paying for a taxi every time you want to go anywhere. When considering a rental, it's both convenient and economical to book it before you arrive at your new destination. Considering today's difficult economy, it only makes sense to save when and where you can. Ask your insurance company to help you do the research. You might be able to get coverage on the rental. This will save you money because you will not need the insurance offered by rental companies. Here's another savings tip: review the transportation options available at your travel destination. You may be surprised at how many choices you have for inexpensive public transportation. By knowing about alternative transportation choices, you can limit the amount of time you will need to rent a car. In addition, your research will tell you about places that will not be covered by public transportation, like historical sites or beach resorts, that are outside the city limits. Using prior research, you can save money by planning your trip before you get to your travel destination. Often enough you can pick up a rental car at the airport, but this will tend to be more highly priced than renting a car from an agency that is outside the airport. Many airports are outside big cities, which means that they can raise their prices knowing that travelers are eager to find a quick solution to how to drive into the city. By arranging a car rental before your plane lands, you can bypass the more expensive rental choices that await at airport based car rental agencies. Calculate the cost of travel before the ground. You do not want to be surprised by hidden fees. For example: * Gas fees, * Drop off fees, * Extra driver fees, * Parking fees,and * Airport taxes. If a rental company has many extras, you can save more money by choosing a rental company that offers a flat fee. You must weigh your options in crisp numbers. Often, the costs associated with abandoning the car, so we know where you should place the car without incurring additional costs. By planning ahead, you can get the best deal in a rental car. In addition, you will have the freedom to travel around the target at will. Using an online car rental for a rental car will save you a lot of money, not to mention the time spent in trying to find a rental once you land. The most expensive places to take a rental car are also the most convenient airports and hotels. You can ignore these "tourist traps" by planning ahead and get your car from a rental agency cheapest car. In conclusion, choosing a car you like, one you know. The smaller the car the best mileage. Only if you travel with a big party, it is useful to a larger car. 