 The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape says that they are very aware of the motions to remove the DA-led coalition government filed by the African Independent Congress (AIC) and the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and other opposition parties. “Council in the presence of both the AIC and EFF resolved to scrap the position of the deputy mayor. “It’s very clear to us that these motions have nothing to do with the performance of the DA-led coalition government, but a scheme to reward themselves with,” Mlindi Nhanha, DA Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson, described. He added that the motion of no confidence in NMB Mayor, Athol Trollip, is without basis, but it is about political expediency motivated by envy and greed. Nhanha also said that service delivery has been priority of the DA-led coalition ever since it took over governance of the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro in 2016. “This coalition government will continue the good work until council sees fit to remove it and usher back the era of self-enrichment, nepotism and looting. “The EFF wants to return NMB to the corrupt ANC and help the ANC steal from the poor and destroy the levels of service delivery that residents have begun to enjoy," he said. “We cannot allow the EFF to hand the Metro back to the ANC and undermine the wishes of the majority of voters of NMB. Under the ANC, NMB was most corrupt metro in South Africa. Today, under the DA-led coalition NMB is a second most trusted metro." He said that, since taking offic,e the DA-led coalition government has: • Made great progress by successfully connecting 12 000 residents to running water and toilets for the first time; • Started process of removing bucket toilets for good in NMB; • Created 4 000 job opportunities ; • Made NMB safer by introducing a Metro Police Department; • Awarded 1 800 youth bursaries worth R34 million; • Is fighting corruption, ensuring that those implicated in corrupt activities face the full might of the law; and • Embarked on an unemployed graduate initiative which focusses on identifying opportunities for these graduates and facilitating them in being employed. “The DA will not sit back and allow the EFF to return the City to the ANC so they can continue where they left off,” Nhanha described. 