 The Overstrand Municipality has awarded the tender for the provision of a parking management system for Hermanus’ central business district to AFRISERV (Pty) Ltd for a contract period ending 30 June 2020. "This means that motorists will once again pay for parking in a bay under municipal control. Parking will cost R1 for 15 minutes, which means it will cost you R4 per hour," said Municipal Spokesperson, Riana Steenekamp. "The parking attendants are dressed in black, wear yellow safety bibs and all have electronic machines that print a slip depicting the time spent and paid for." Steenekamp further said that parking is paid for upfront to one of the marshals assigned to that parking area. If you stayed longer than what you had paid for, you can settle the outstanding amount with the parking attendant when you return to your vehicle. The parking structure works as follows:  It will cost R4.00 for an hour, R2.00 for 30 minutes (or part thereof) and R1.00 for 15 minutes between the hours of 08:30 and 16:00 Mondays to Fridays, and 08:30 to 13:00 on Saturdays. On Sundays and public holidays parking will be free of charge. In the evenings and on Sundays/public holidays when there are no parking attendants, fees do not apply. You do not have to pay local car guards (dressed in green, orange or yellow fluorescent safety vests) but can tip them for the time spent watching your car. This is optional but gratefully accepted by those less fortunate, trying to earn their keep. Parking disksResidents also have the option to obtain a permanent parking disk from AFRISERV at a cost of R300 per month. They are still in the process of finalising a premises in the CBD, but currently working from Unit 4, Dreamcatchers Building, 6 Gideon Van Wyk Crescent, Hermanus Industria. Free parking In addition, free parking is available at Hoy's Koppie (opposite Checkers) and on the  grounds of the NG Church, Hermanus. Gearing’s Point parking is no longer free of charge. Parking fees levied by shopping centres such as Woolworths and Checkers on their own private land  are determined by the operators of those centres as these are not municipal property. Complaints Complaints regarding parking marshals can be directed to Muneeb Slamang (021 418 4000 or muneeb@afripark.co.za) or the site supervisor Fishani Nkhonjera (078 847 8120 or fishani@afrilandscapes.co.za) between 08:00 and 16:30. Should you not have the relevant parking marshal’s name, quote the date and time and state the area. 