 The Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber in partnership with the Eastern Cape Development Corporation (ECDC) on Tuesday announced that it has launched a new one-year Exporter Development Programme as part of an enterprise development strategy to empower business owners and companies. The Business Chamber launched and welcomed several companies that are on the cusp of exporting, but in need of further assistance to enter and explore new markets. According to the recently released EC Export Strategy, many SMEs face key constraints and several barriers such as intensified international competition, unable to participate in potential buyer outreaches, costs relating to marketing, logistics and transport and export documentation. These prohibit companies to expand and grow their products and services in foreign markets. “The Exporter Development Programme is designed to assist companies to reduce and eliminate all these challenges and barriers,” said Nomkhita Mona, Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber. “We are pleased to announce that we have now concluded a thorough screening and selection process to identify firms that will enter the export market programme,” she said. The Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan is a major exporter of manufacturing products from the province. In 2016, the Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan accounted for 77.5% (or about R41.6 billion) of provincial manufacturing exports followed by Sarah Baartman District at 3.1% (or about R1.6 billion) and the Buffalo City Metropolitan at 2.7% (or about R1.4 billion). The Nelson Mandela Bay Metropolitan is the most competitive metropolitan in the Eastern Cape when it comes to manufacturing exports, with transport equipment -motor vehicle, parts and accessories - contributing 99.3% to the province followed by metal, metal products, machinery and equipment (97.4%); furniture and other manufacturing (95.3%), other non-metal mineral products (93.1%); petroleum products, chemicals, rubber and plastic (86.3%); textile, clothing and leather goods (78.3%); Radio, tv, instruments, watches and clocks (74.9%); wood, paper, publishing and printing (53.5%). “It is against these statistics that the ECDC has decided to partner with the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber on delivering the pilot phase of the Exporter Development Programme,” said Phakamisa George ECDC, Senior for Export Promotion. The companies that will form part of the programme will come from different regions in the province however due to the strength of the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro on exports; the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber will assist with programme implementation. The Programme entails a combination of interventions aimed at improving the export readiness of the firms and this includes modular training by an accredited service provider as well as mentorship with firms in the Bay that are currently exporting. “The Business Chamber is excited to partner with the Eastern Cape Exporters for providing valuable practical exposure to the emerging exporters” said Nomkhita Mona The companies will participate on the programme for a period of a year and thereafter an evaluation will be made on the impact of the programme. Some of the companies that have been enrolled include: Image: SEEKING NEW HORIZONS:   Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber’s Operations Manager Prince Matonsi (left) and ECDC’s said Senior Manager for Export Promotion pictured with two companies enrolled on the Exporter Development Programme: Buzwebethu Textile Prints CEO Nobuzwe Mabona and SOGA Organic Admin and Logistics Manager Diana Hannah. 