 “I am a natural organiser and believe that we do not have to accept weak service delivery,” Pastor Johanna Marianne Lötter, told RNEWS. She will be representing the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) in Wednesday's Ward 1 by-election. Lötter is a local businesswoman, who has been living in Miramar, for the past 14 years. She is also a Pastor at the Word of Faith Christian Centre, is Radio announcer, who previously worked at RKF, PEFM and is currently on Luister!FM 90.6. She told RNEWS that she joined the ACDP 20 years ago and has been involved in the party's various activities including various charities. Lötter said that as a taxpayer, she hates to see her money stolen or misused and if she wins the elections, service delivery for the residents of Ward 1 will be her priority. “I am in possession of a list of requests from the Ward 1 taxpayers. I will make it my business to bring about change,” she described. “I will therefore work closely with Councillor Grootboom so that we can prove that the ACDP delivers what we promise." Cllr Lance Grootboom is the leader of the ACDP in the Nelson Mandela Bay and described Lötter as a candidate with integrity, who knows the ward and the needs of its residents. “We will ensure that all high priority service delivery issues that have been highlighted by residents in the Metro's IDP (integrated development plan) are addressed. I'm convinced that we can win that ward,” Grootboom described. The ACDP is part of the Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition that is currently governing the Metro. Grootboom, who is the Metro's MMC for Health, added that the DA had their chance in 2016 and have “failed to deliver”; therefore the ACDP is the right alternative to deliver service delivery and bring about change to Ward 1. “We call upon residents of Ward 1 to vote for ACDP a party with a unwavering track record and give us a chance to show what we can deliver in Ward 1. “It is proven in our current partnership in the coalition, in our position as Municipal Public Accounts Committee (MPAC) chair and Now MMC for Public health," he added. “If we win Ward 1, we will have a stronger voice in council since the metro does not have a full majority government. “It will give ACDP the ability to be the kingmaker that can bring the change the residents of the Metro so desperately need. We can also show case that we can transform a ward and improve services delivery." 