 12 Entrepreneurs graduated from The Hope Factory’s Flagship Business Development Programme, based in Port Elizabeth. This bespoke programme offers essential business skills training, leadership development as well as financial excellence through our financial coaching and financial bootcamps curriculum. The programme is funded through Enterprise Development contributions from Corporate clients throughout the Eastern and Western Cape. Says Ashley Murray, Programme Manager, “It is always such an honour to witness the growth and development of our entrepreneurs, and this year has been no different. "We have found that the focus on business and leadership development coupled with the financial excellence programme provides a holistic mentorship programme that covers all key areas needed for growth. "As demanding as it is at times, the entrepreneurs stepped up to the plate and I have no doubt will continue to go from strength to strength. They are our current and future leaders and are now in a place to confidently consider entering supply chains. As part of our Alumni they remain in our system for any future linkages with Corporate SA. We are very proud of them all.” Through the mentorship programme, entrepreneurs are empowered without creating a co-dependence. The model is based on each businesses development needs; keeping track of growth through Business Performance reviews and feedback reports. Tango Hermanus of Umsobumvu Construction said a highlight of the programme for him has been the tremendous growth he has experienced, both personally and in his business. He adds, “I have learnt a lot around what professionalism looks like. I have also met the high target I set for myself and this has taken my business to new heights.” Another inspired entrepreneur, Eschel Liesering, owner of Plateau Hygiene, said that the financial bootcamp was a highlight, as well as the social media sessions which allowed him to make his business more visible and increase exposure. He says, “My brand is now a lot more professional. "We have a clear direction of where we are going and a better bigger picture view, which the financial coaching sessions assisted with too.” The success of any programme lies in its impact, and our interim annualized results speak for themselves: 