 The long-awaited National Minimum Wage( NMW) online exemption system will go live in the last week of April 2018, said Department of Labour, Deputy Director: Employment Standards Mathilda Bergmann. She said employers will have a chance to access the system through www.nmw.dol.gov.za, just on the eve of the official implementation of the National Minimum Wage. Bergmann said the system once online will focus on verifying accuracy of information, adjudicate on affordability and audit financial statements. She said that once an employer has been granted an exemption it was imperative that a copy of notice while displayed at the workplace where it can be read by employees, give the copy of the exemption notice to: Bergmann was addressing a Department of Labour employer’s and employer organisations briefing session on National Minimum Wage implementation and NMW exemption process, held at Farm and Fellow guest house in George, Western Cape. The NMW bill is expected to be enacted ahead of its official implementation on 1 May 2018. The NMW bill is currently in parliament before legislatures. The NMW bill makes provision for an employer or an employer’s organisation to apply for an exemption in the prescribed electronic form. Bergmann said unlike the sectoral determination exemption applications that were submitted manually, the NMW system will be strictly electronic and designed to fast track the adjudication process. She reiterated that regulations on exemptions were expected to be unveiled in two weeks for public comment. The Department of Labour is hosting the series of national briefing sessions aimed at employers and employer organisations in order to educate them on the National Minimum Wage exemption process. The first in a national series of employers and employer organisations briefing sessions started in Gauteng on 19 March in Braamfontein and on 20 March in Pretoria. The Department of Labour plans to host 17 briefings sessions nationally. The employers and employer organisations briefing sessions follows on the heels of those held for trade unions and shop stewards on the implementation of the National Minimum Wage and amendments to labour laws. The 20 briefing session were held nationally from November 2017 until February 2018. The agreed National Minimum Wage at NEDLAC is pegged at R20 an hour for major sectors with the exception of farm/forestry workers, domestic workers and expanded public works programme workers. The status of learnerships is expected to remain unchanged. Bergmann emphasised that, “the granting of exemptions will be done to advance the purpose of the NMW Act”. The next employer briefing session will be held on Monday in Durban, Olive Convention Centre, 81 Somtseu Road, North Beach. This will be followed by briefing sessions on 27 March at Unhlathuze local municipality – No 5 Mark Strauss street in Richards Bay, North West (03 April in Lichtenburg); Northern Cape (05 April in Springbok; 06 April in Upington); Eastern Cape (09 April in East London; 10 April in Port Elizabeth); Mpumalanga (12 April in Nelspruit; 13 April in Piet Retief); Limpopo (16 April in Tzaneen; 17 Polokwane in Polokwane); and Free State (19 April in Bloemfontein, 20 April in Bethlehem). The employer briefing sessions start at 10:00am to 13:00pm.  