 The Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition government in Nelson Mandela Bay on Friday said that its tough stance on criminality within the Municipality was vindicated on Friday when a Councillor was convicted on fraud and corruption. "This after the Port Elizabeth Commercial Crimes Court found Ward 20 African National Congress (ANC) councillor, Bongo Nombiba, guilty of fraud and money laundering," said Mlindi Nhanha - DA Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson. "Nombiba stole R20 000 out of a discretionary fund that was allocated for a local NGO. "This proves the ANC cannot be trusted with the people’s money and that handing the City back to this corrupt party would spell disaster." Nombimba, from Kwazakhele, was accused of swindling the municipality of the money, which was part of a donation to an organisation caring for the elderly. He first appeared in court in December 2016. According to the State, Secretary of a local non-governmental organisation (NGO) called Thulamangwane Community Project that renders services such as caring for elderly people and cleaning schools in the community, Zukiswa Mbhem, and Deputy Chairperson, Mandisa Monco, with other members, approached the Councillor to request a R10 000 donation from the municipality as financial assistance for the NGO. It is alleged that Nombimba instructed the group to put their request in writing, but not to mention the amount that they had requested, which they did in September 2014. The State claims that Nombiba then forwarded the request to the Metro for an amount of R30 000, which was apparently meant for the organisation. In November 2014, the Metro deposited R30 000 into the NGO's Standard Bank Account. However, Nombiba told the NGO that of the R30 000 deposited - R10 000 was what the NGO requested and the R20 000 was his. That is when the fraud came to light. Nhanha added; "Yet again the DA-led coalition has shown it has zero tolerance for criminal and corrupt behaviour and will stop at nothing to ensure that those responsible for such crimes are brought to justice and end up behind bars if found guilty. "We are committed to completely rooting out corruption and managing our Municipality effectively." He said that the "systematic looting of the Municipality's coffers at the hands of the corrupt ANC brought the city to its knees" and as a result the voters of NMB removed the ANC from office and voted for a DA-led coalition government. "Since the DA-led coalition took over government after the municipal elections in 2016 total change has come to NMB and a clean-up began to root out all forms of corruption, remove the perpetrators from the municipality and ensure a clean administration." 