 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape has refuted reports published in some weekend newspapers that a Mayoral candidate for Nelson Mandela Bay has been decided upon. "There has been no discussions on the matter, but regretfully some faceless people who purport to be ANC leaders as qouted on Sunday papers peddled these lies and untruths," the party said. "Over the past weekend, the ANC NEC held consultation meetings with ANC structures (REC/ANC Caucus/ANC Veterans League/ Branches and Alliance structures to solicit their views on the collapse of the DA led Coalition in the Metro. "We have agreed in principle that we support the motion of no-confidence against Trollip as the Coalition has failed the residents of the Metro. "Our observation is the fact that DA continues to perpetuate the old generational advantages of White people and neglects transformation." The party said that the Metro has been one of the least unequal parts of the country as reported recently. "Some of the gains before the 3rd August 2016 such as the Assistance To The Poor (ATTP) to assist our poor and indigent communities have been reviewed. "Electricity has been cut to residents and are forced to pay reconnection fees to the tune of R340. Rubbish have been piling our streets with out collection ,whilst in leafy suburbs it's collected twice a week," the ANC said. "Our communities in New Brighton, Kwazakhele, Veeplaas, Motherwell, KwaLanga, Kleinskool, Helenvale and Walmer stay in service delivery neglect due to the DAs disregard for the poor and underprivileged communities "The ANC for obvious reason support the motion of no confidence against the racist Athol Trollip administration." It however said that beyond names "that are thrown around including the demand by EFF that the ANC must provide a credible leader as the Executive Mayor", its goal is to have the best leadership appointed with other parties. "The ANC will continue to participate in dialogue with other opposition parties in the Nelson Mandela which seek to identify the best combination of both the policies and individuals that can constitute the best leadership of the Metro going forward," it said. "The ANC is not a self seeking organization but founded on the service of the people, henceforth in all the endevours to reconstitute the administration of Nelson Mandela it would be informed by what's the best for the people of the Metro. "As the consultation was engineered by the NEC, this past weekend discussions will be consolidated through an NEC resolution, when the NEC meets sooner but before the 29th March 2018 . "We strongly appeal to all the ANC members, structures of the ANC and allies to continue to serve the people of Nelson Mandela with diligence and prioritize Renewal, Unity and Jobs during this centenary year of our great leader Nelson Mandela." 