 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Member of the Mayoral Committee (MMC) for Road & Transport, Cllr Rano Kayser, on Monday officially handed over the 25 Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS) buses to a local operator, Spectrum Alert, at Cleary Park bus depot. Kayser said the moment for the Integrated Public Transport System buses has finally arrived with the last piece of the puzzle now in place. “It was a really hard and bumpy road but we managed to stay the course. We can now officially hand over 25 buses, of which 24 are articulated, as well as the Cleary Park depot facility to the Vehicle Operating company – Spectrum Alert. “I’ve made a commitment that we will not deviate from legislative requirements and accordingly the city now mandates the industry to run the Integrated Public Transport System (IPTS) on its behalf. “Taxi drivers and guardjies (previously responsible for collecting money and operating taxi doors) have been trained and are now qualified Code 14 drivers and many more job opportunities will follow such as security services, maintenance and mechanical jobs amongst others. “However we would like the beneficiaries of these jobs to come primarily from the taxi industry. “Policemen and women who can present their appointment certificates as proof will be able to commute for free. Pensioners and students, with valid student cards, will get a 20% discount from the normal fare,” MMC Kayser said. The buses will start to operate from the 26th of March with complimentary bus tickets that will be handed out from that date to the 9th of April 2018. The complimentary ticket allows commuters to have access to 12 free trips as part of a project to get them to share their experiences on the buses. Keyser said that by giving the tender to Spectrum Alert, the Metro was transforming the IPTS system. Spectrum Alert CEO, Christian King, said that the buses will start with the Cleary Park-CBDs route then get onto the Njoli-CBD route afterwards. A public participation process, starting on Monday night, will now follow with Northern Areas residents and thousands of complimentary tickets will be distributed for use between 26 March and 9 April. The IPTS drivers’ uniform was also revealed on Monday. They will be wearing black jeans with red golf-shirts, which are the same colour as the buses. Commuters can get their complimentary tickets at the Cleary Park Customer Care Centre and the Mfanasekhaya Gqoboshe Building. Call the Libhongolethu Transport Operations Centre at 0800 47 87 87 for more information. 