 Vuyo Zitumane has been appointed as Amatola Water’s chief executive officer, replacing former CEO, Lefadi Makibinyane, who was fired last year. The appointment was announced on Thursday by the national cabinet following a recommendation by the Amatola Water Board. "Zitumane comes with a formidable track-record, having served in numerous senior positions in the public sector, notably as the executive director for corporate services with the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality and as the Eastern Cape Parks and Tourism Board’s chairperson," said Connie Buso-Niwa, Communication manager at Amatola Water. "She has served as the chair on two of the Eastern Cape’s development agencies, Joe Gqabi and Buffalo City. She has also gained vast experience in implementing a range of high impact turnaround interventions in the public sector." Buso-Niwa said that Amatola Water board chairperson, Nokulunga Mnqeta, says that Zitumane’s recommendation came after a rigorous recruitment process. "Zitumane’s immediate focus in her new role at Amatola Water will be on driving the turnaround strategy. "She says that Zitumane’s standout experience will be invaluable in building and stabilising the water utility which has begun a demanding turnaround strategy," Buso-Niwa added. "Amongst the priorities of the strategy are stabilising the leadership of the organisation to ensure organisational consolidation that will lead to improving Amatola Water’s effectiveness and financial stability. "The appointment, pending the finalisation of a contract with Amatola Water, is effective on 1 April 2018." Mnqeta thanked acting CEO Asanda Gidana for her tremendous efforts and inputs over the past seven months which had helped the water utility through challenging times. "Gidana returns to her fulltime operations portfolio at Amatola Water," Buso-Niwa said. "In the past two months, Amatola Water has also appointed Jo Dalbock as its corporate services director, Khotso Maesela as supply chain manager and Siyabulela Fatyi as its IT manager which has made about further stability to the water utility’s leadership team. 