 “I will donate 50% of my salary every month back to the Ward for any good cause or form of aid to those, who need assistance - whether it’s students, neighbourhood watches or organised community groups. This is a commitment to the people of my Ward,” Congress of the People (COPE) Ward 1 candidate in the upcoming by-elections, Rashied Adams, said. The Ward became vacant after Adams, who had won it in the 2016 Local Government Elections, was unceremoniously dismissed from the Democratic Alliance (DA)last year. He is now hoping to win it again for his new political home, the COPE - who are part of the DA-led coalition that is currently governing in the Nelson Mandela Bay. “Coupled with this decision, of which I take accountability seriously; I have always been committed to making the coalition government work. So, by joining COPE, a coalition partner and I win the election, I will then be back in the coalition and bound by the coalition agreement. “My problem was never with the DA, but a clash with individuals,” Adams explained to RNEWS. He added that if he wins the elections he will work through the misunderstanding that he had with Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip - including ensuring that a proposed motion of no confidence in Trollip that will be tabled by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) on the 6th of April, does not succeed. When RNEWS asked him about his chances of winning the Ward again, Adams said: “I am confident that I am in a unique and privileged position to win the Ward back, but that is entirely in the hands of the voters.” “I will respect the outcome, even if it’s not in my favour. I am principled and heeded to the call of residents, who really wanted me to contest and renew my mandate,” he added. While many might assume that Ward 1 residents might not want him back after his fallout with the DA last year, he said that would be a false assumption. “It was in fact white voters from Lakefarm all the way to Summerstrand who said, 'Rashied you need to contest, you have our support and votes'. "While on the campaign trail, white, black, coloured, indian and voters from all walks of life committed their support for me on election day. I have worked well with all residents in Ward 1 and I enjoyed every day of it,” Adams described. He also said that he is now in a better position to fight for service delivery in the Bay without the fear of committing political suicide. “No DA Councillor can fight in Council with a member of their Executive for outstanding service delivery issues. “The obvious would happen, he or she would be axed. I will also be in a position to fight increasing rates. Residents in Ward 1 are not happy about the escalating rates. NMBM is the metro with the highest rates in South Africa," he said. “High rates in an economic hub like Ward 1, Summerstrand in particular, scares investment opportunities and directly affects students’ rental costs." Adams said that if he is elected again, he will create a ward-based opportunity forum for those seeking opportunities, whether it is people seeking jobs, SMME’s seeking work – the idea is to link people to opportunities directly on a ward-level, where tangible governance is rolled out. “I will continue with all my ground-breaking work I have been busy with. And lastly, I will donate 50% of my salary every month back to the Ward community for any good cause or form of aid to those who need assistance, whether it’s students, neighbourhood watches or organised community groups. This is a commitment to the people of my Ward,” Adams concluded. 