 It has since emerged that its not just Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip's head that is on the line as opposition parties in the Bay have requested a special Council meeting on the 29th of March to remove the Mayor and his Mayoral Committee as well as re-instate the position of Deputy Executive Mayor. Opposition parties on Wednesday agreed that Council Chief Whip, Werner Senekal, and the Speaker of the Council, Jonathan Lawack, all members of the Democratic Alliance (DA) that is leading a coalition of smaller parties that is running the Bay, must go. In their letter requesting a special Council Meeting, the parties claim that all those to be removed have in a nutshell been incompetent in doing their duties. The motion for the removal of the current Speaker Lawack is apparently because he has been showing favoritism towards the DA at the expense of opposition parties during council meetings. Before this new motion, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) had announced that they will move to remove Trollip on the 6th of April. The parties came to a decision to table the motion of no confidence against Senekal because he "failed in his fiduciary duties by not ensuring that the speaker of council enforces the Council’s Rules of Orders consistently and fairly during council meetings, thereby showing bias toward opposition councilors", the parties claim. Last year, when the EFF saved Trollip and Lawack from being removed in Patriotic Alliance (PA) and United Democratic Movement (UDM) sponsored motions, the position of Deputy Executive Mayor, from which the UDM's Mongameli Bobani, had been removed over corruption allegations, was also abolished. Now the parties want the rescission of that council decision and a new Deputy Executive Mayor appointed. The parties also want the removal of all current portfolio heads of council committee and new members chosen. In its motivation, the EFF says it wants Trollip gon for not caring about disadvantaged residents in the townships. "Trollip and his party attempted to remove informal traders from the streets along Buffelsfontein Road and Warmer," the party added. At an event for the handover of permits to informal traders, Trollip explained that the reason for the their removal was to nsure that they are operating from municipal identified places. "Trollip also watched and insisted in the council for money that was going to be used to repair road in various wards to be set aside for an Ironman road extension," the EFF said. "People, who were desperate for houses were in humanely removed from land they invaded." The EFF continued to explain how Trollip has on numerous occasions has shown patriarch in the council. The party said the last straw was when he allegedly attempted to appoint his lawyer and a businessman, who played an active role in his election campaign, to serve as directors on the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) board. 