 The Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA) is delighted to announce an initiative aimed at the revival of the inner City of Port Elizabeth through a celebration of heritage, arts and display of some of the City’s iconic landmarks. The MBDA in partnership with Baakens Food Truck Company and the Eastern Cape Philharmonic Orchestra will host a two -day family oriented, unique combination of music art and artisan food market on Saturday 17th and Sunday the 18th March across three venues, the Feather Market, Vuyisile Mini Square and the Campanile. The Eastern Cape Philharmonic Orchestra is renowned for many successful symphonic orchestra concerts held at Victoria Park with leading musical performances. “This year the orchestra is moving into the inner city at the Feather Market Centre bringing with it new opportunities” says Luvuyo Bangazi, Marketing and Communications Manager at the MBDA. “The move by the orchestra gave us the opportunity to create a multicultural and diverse programme that culminates in front of City Hall incorporating, performances from the Campanile Bells chiming out songs such as the legendary Nkosi Sikelel’I Africa. “City Hall will host the Baakens Food Truck village offering the popular array for speciality foods and drinks they are known for. Bay citizens who aren’t able to attend the orchestra will have it streamed on screen at Vuyisile Mini Square making sure that those on the square do not miss much. During the orchestra breaks the Campanile bells will be played by Professor Troskie offering an array of musical performances, a first as far as we know." The exciting programme starts on Saturday the 17th at 3pm, continues on Sunday from 11am with live performances on the square before the orchestra programme kicks off inside the Feather Market. More details regarding safety, parking, shuttles, kiddies zone and performers will be released from Monday the 12th. For more information got to: www.facebook.com/events Philharmonic Orchestra – Tickets available at Computicket - HERE Entrance to Vuyisile Mini Square activities – Free #movetothemusic 