 With 1 April just around the corner, many South African households are concerned about the impact of the 1% increase in Value added tax (VAT) on their standard of living and their ability to save and transact freely. Neil Thompson, Head of Product at African Bank, says that the 1% VAT increase on the cost of credit should be marginal since the increase only applies to once-off initiation fee on a credit agreement and the monthly administration fee thereafter, as well as the transaction fees on transactional cards. “In reality however the real impact on the consumer will depend on each and every customer’s unique circumstances when it comes to the number of credit agreements or cards they hold versus their income and how tight their budget already is.” Thompson says it is important that consumers understand what components of their credit will be impacted. Take a credit card for example. VAT is not charged on the original capital, which is the total credit limit on the card, or the interest which is charged on the outstanding balance on the card. “Consumers do need to understand however that VAT is charged on both the initiation fee as well as the monthly service fee so there will be a slight increase here,” he says.  For card products VAT is also charged on the following account and transaction fees: “What this means effectively is that the more cards a person has, the more they will logically transact and therefore the bigger the impact on monthly fees and transaction fees could be,” notes Thompson. When it comes to loans the capital (the loan amount) is not subject to VAT, nor is the interest which is capitalised on the loan amount for the term. But, as with credit cards, VAT is charged on the fees on a loan. “So of course the more loans a person has, the bigger the impact on monthly fees could be,” he says. Here are four useful budget tips to follow which will help see you through the increase: “The implications of the VAT increase can be confusing to fully understand. But, as long as you keep yourself informed throughout the process and make a conscious effort to change habits, modify your household budget and re-think you grocery list and credit habits,  you can avoid any financial blunders that can occur as a result of this change,” Thompson concludes. 