 Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, on Tuesday launched the Provincial Public Service Month in Struandale, Port Elizabeth. As the country observes Public Service Month, the Eastern Cape Provincial Government said that it is playing its part in recommitting public servants to deliver quality service to citizens. The province launched its Public Service Month under the theme - Thuma Mina. "The main objectives of Public Service Month is to evaluate the quality of service rendered by public servants to the people, revisit the Batho Pele principles, promote high standards of professionalism within the public service and fast track service delivery blockages in communities," explained Ntsoaki Thulo from the Eastern Cape Office of the Premier. Bhisho has also endorsed the rollout of the Batho Pele Revitalisation Programme in the Provincial Civil Service under the theme ‘We Belong, We Care, We Serve’. The Batho Pele Revitalisation Campaign is being championed around four core pillars as follows: This is the first time that Bhisho has taken Public Service Month to the Nelson Mandela Bay. Public Service Month will conclude on the 28th of September 2018. In his keynote address, Premier Massualle said that over the next four weeks, officials will be going to every ward in Port Elizabeth and asking the residents of those wards about their biggest challenges. "In this month, part of this campaign will ensure that we spend four weeks in Nelson Mandela Bay and the current leaders will be available when we visit different wards here to have the first hand account of the conditions in which our people live in," he described. The officials will also discuss possible solutions on how government can bring better services to the people. "Interactions with people will help us have an idea of how we deal with the issues, such as high levels of crime as well as gangsterism here are ills that all of us have to defeat in our communities," tthe Premier said. Masualle also said that people, who have resources must help those, who are in need and vulnerable as that is according to the government theme of 2018 - Thuma Mina. 