 Police in Port Elizabeth arrested six men and a woman on Thursday following the hijacking of three delivery vehicles in separate incidents. In the first incident, according to police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, a white Hyundai H100 delivery vehicle was hijacked in Ranisi street, NU8, Motherwell, Port Elizabeth, by three armed suspects. He said that the driver was delivering fridges in the area at 14:30 with his assistant when they were hijacked at gun-point. "It is alleged that they were forced onto the back of the vehicle and driven off by the suspects. At the first traffic lights, they managed to jump off the vehicle safely and ran away to alert police." Captain Beetge said that the vehicle was recovered an hour later abandoned in Mvubu street, NU1, Motherwell. The Isuzu hijacker In the second incident, at about the same time at 14:30, a white Isuzu bakkie used as a courier delivery vehicle was hijacked at gun-point by two armed suspects in Mbeki Avenue, Govan Mbeki, while they were delivering parcels. Captain Beetge confirmed that the vehicle was found abandoned less than 10 minutes later in Bart Street, Ezinyoka. A few parcels were missing from the vehicle. Cosmetic truck hijacker In the third incident, at 15:15, another delivery vehicle delivering cosmetic products was hijacked at Captain Street, NU10, Motherwell. According to captain Beetge, armed suspects forced the driver and his assistant off the vehicle at gunpoint and drove off with the white Nissan NP200 bakkie loaded with boxes containing cosmetics. "They also robbed the complainants of four cellphones," Captain Beetge said. In less than a hour, the vehicle was found abandoned in Mbokwana Street, NU10, Motherwell, without its cargo. According to Captain Beetge, boxes containing the cosmetics were later found at NU1, along Ingwe Street, as well as the four cellphones belonging to the complainants. "A 38 revolver and a 9mm pistol with 12 rounds ammunition were discovered hidden in cupbourds. "Seven suspects - including a 38-year-old female, were arrested," he said. The ages of the six male suspects ranged between 25 and 42 years old. "The firearms were discovered with their serial numbers removed and were sent for ballistic and forensic analysis." The value of the goods recovered are estimated at around R300 000. The suspects will be appearing in the Motherwell Magistrate's Court on Monday facing charges of possession of stolen property and illegal possession of unlicensed fire arms. More crime involvement Captain Beetge said that suspects will also be investigated to determine their possible involvement in the hikacking case and charges could be added to those linked. Meanwhile the Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, emphasized on the importance of removing illegal firearm from the streets. "In this last week, we have recovered 14 firearms including a shotgun and a rifle that was stolen in a Pearston case. "We have also arrested 14 suspects for illegal possession of these firearms and a furher two suspects were killed in shoot outs while committing robberies using fire arms," he said. "SAPS will not tolerate illegal fire arms and persons committing crimes using firearms will face the full force of the law." Community involvement against crime He urged the community to make a stand together with SAPS and flush out these criminals and their firearms. "The shotgun and rifle were recovered yesterday at 12:30 by OCC members after information were received," Major Gen Rabie said. "They were found in a bag behind a shack in Savanna Street, Kandokwenze, New Brighton. Arrests are expected to be made soon." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 