 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, has condemned the behaviour of the official opposition in the Bay, the Democratic Alliance (DA), after its councillors apparently disrupted a special Council Meeting on Tuesday and forcing Speaker, Buyelwa Mafaya, to adjourn the meeting to Thursday. Addressing a media briefing after the chaotic NMB Council Meeting, Bobani, said that the DA councillors arrived at the meeting with another agenda planned, which was to disrupt the meeting until it was adjourned. “We want to warn anyone, who has intentions of disrupting the business of the Council. We are not here to disappoint our residents, ours is about delivering services to them," Bobani described. “There were decisions that were supposed to be taken here today and yet they disrupted our meeting, but council business is going to continue on Thursday and we are not going to be held ransom by the hidden agendas." Bobani added that the DA councillor’s problem is that they don’t want to accept that they have lost, “they went to court and they have lost power, now their strategy is to make it seem like this government is ungovernable". "Our interests are for our citizens and there is no one that is going to stop us from ensuring that the Nelson Mandela Bay residents get the services that they deserve." Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality council meeting chaos The second Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Meeting under the new administration led by Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, on Tuesday descended into chaos after the Democratic Alliance (DA) apparently had two Councillors representing one seat in the Council Chambers. Despite the presence of rogue DA Councillor, Mbulelo Victor Manyathi, whom the PE High Court ruled was still legally a Democratic Alliance Councillor, the DA apparently brought in his replacement, Lutho Sokudela, whom the party appointed at the beginning of this month. Things went downhill after the Speaker asked that Sokudela leaves the Council Chamber.  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 