 Gauteng has been undergoing massive infrastructure upgrades and residential development over the past two decades with Midrand being one of the key corridors earmarked to lead this growth plan. In the last two decades, Midrand has enjoyed exponential growth and continues on the upward trajectory, with plenty of room and opportunity for investment. The area has grown into a residential and commercial hub with executive office parks, malls, social amenities and a diverse spectrum of residential offerings. Underpinned by ongoing rapid commercial growth, Midrand remains an attractive area for first-time buyers and investors. “Midrand offers a range of price points in terms of residential property and this attracts a cross-section of buyers. The strategic location of Midrand makes it a very desirable area for families wanting to buy property as well as investors looking for high yield investment opportunities. "There is no doubt that the area is positioned for a positive long-term outlook,” says Sancha Olivier, Project Manager of Engel & Völkers Developer Driven Projects. Focus on Clayville Clayville, an area of Olifantsfontein, is in the heart of Midrand and falls under the Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality. It is poised to be the next residential hub. Areas of Clayville have been staked as part of the Clayville-Tembisa Mega Housing Project, which will benefit the entire area by undertaking urban renewal, creating employment opportunities and the upgrading of infrastructure. Clayville is a peaceful, safe and quiet suburb conveniently situated on public transport routes, with easy access to the N1 and R21. The area is surrounded by a number of convenience and regional malls including Blue Hills shopping Centre, Boulders, Carlswald Lifestyle Centre, Tembisa Phumulani Mall as well as the shopping and entertainment destination that is Mall of Africa. In terms of positioning, the suburb is a mere 20 minutes’ drive to either Pretoria or Johannesburg CBD, 40 minutes’ away from Sandton CBD, a 15 minutes’ drive to OR Tambo International Airport and just 20 minutes from Midrand Gautrain station. There is plenty to do around Clayville, families can take a day outing to the Stoke City Adventure Park, plan a trip to the local library and in summer enjoy a day in the sun at the Olifantsfontein communal swimming pool. Midrand Village - the perfect choice for a family or property investors Positioned in Clayville, Midrand Village offers an excellent selection of properties for the first-time home-owner as well as investors wanting to expand their rental portfolio. Midrand Village is a private and neat 24-hour security, access controlled estate with patrolling guards for added peace of mind. It comprises 335 uniquely designed free-standing homes with modern interior finishes and spacious, walled-in gardens for extra privacy. Midrand Village is a pet-friendly estate that offers a safe environment for children and includes open park areas, a soccer field and a jungle gym. The units vary between 2-3 bedrooms, 1-2 bathrooms, with either a covered, lock-up carport or garage. All units have functional open plan kitchens and spacious living areas, energy saving solar geysers and prepaid electricity metres. Stand sizes range from 326m2 to 1355m2. Midrand Village offers an authentic neighbourly atmosphere and a true sense of belonging.  From a game of soccer on the communal areas to moms meeting at the jungle gym for a chat, it’s a way of life that connects like-minded residents. In the estate, the diversity of cultures creates a sense of community, safety and security which is very satisfying. “Buyers don’t simply look for bricks and mortar, they buy lifestyle. They want a home in an area that has excellent infrastructure, amenities, schools, malls and are central in relation to business hubs. "They want to be part of a community. Well-located urban properties, such as those on offer within Midrand Village, provide buyers with a desirable lifestyle and sound investment returns over the long term,” concludes Olivier. For more information, visit www.midrandvillage.co.za 