 Whilst it is a relatively young agency - only founded in 2016 - Jackie Cory Recruitment (Pty) Ltd, truly captures the maxim that age is but a number. This Port Elizabeth based Recruitment Consultancy has made a mark locally in recruitment areas such as permanent, temporary and contract staffing, both at entry and senior level appointments. “We focus on recruitment and selection of candidates for client companies in Finance, Engineering, IT, HR, Sales & Marketing and Administration roles,” stated Managing Director, Jackie Cory. In these areas, the company has built a track record of successful recruitment campaigns on behalf of both small and multi-national organizations. “We use the tried and tested DISC assessment in understanding the behaviour of the candidate, which also assists in matching them more effectively,” Cory adds. At Jackie Cory Recruitment, you are dealing with a vibrant and motivated team and Jackie Cory actually has over 20 years of recruitment experience honed in South Africa, Swaziland and Mozambique. “Being a Social Worker, I care about my candidates and have started soft skills-based training workshops to prepare my candidates for interviews with clients,” Cory explains. “A good news story is after attending one of our workshops a finance candidate, who was unemployed for 6 months, secured two offers in one week and stated that the workshop helped her with her overall confidence and preparation.” To cater for their clients’ ever-changing needs, she mentions that they also offer Excel training workshops, which are facilitated currently by an experienced Chartered Accountant. “The feedback received from delegates and clients to date has been positive,” Cory elaborates. “Many of our workshops are customized to suit the clients’ needs and we cover workshops on Change Management; Motivating Performance; Developing a Culture of Creativity; Interpersonal Competency; Customer Service and many more.” She says that the business’s success story has also been because of the positive relationships that they have built with other local companies. “Collaboration has been part of my drive, since I started Jackie Cory Recruitment and I am happy to partner with external service providers to create a more rewarding and beneficial service to both my clients and candidates,” she clarifies. To compliment the work that they do with their clients and candidates in recognizing the pressure candidates and companies are often under in this fast-paced world, Jackie Cory Recruitment also provides Stress Management Training to candidates and companies that may need this service. “Our intent is to partner with our clients by making a positive impact on their profitability. Our goal is a holistic understanding of both our clients’ and the candidates’ expectations, and to exceed those expectations,” Cory adds. Would you like to find out more about Jackie Cory Recruitment, visit them at 68 Mangold Street in Newton Park, Port Elizabeth or call 041 364 2244 or visit them online today at www.jackiecrecruit.co.za. 