 Sounding disappointed at the judgement handed down by the Port Elizabeth High Court on Thursday, former Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, told a local radio show that he will not be appealing the judgement that his one-time Deputy, Mongameli Bobani, was legally elected as his replacement. The court dismissed the urgent application brought by the Democratic Alliance and its coalition partners after having reserved judgment last week. The DA-led coalition wanted the court to set aside the election of Bobani as new Mayor at a controversial Council Meeting that took place on the 27th of August. It also ruled that a DA Councillor, Victor Manyathi, who abstained from voting - effectively handing the opposition parties a 60/59 win, which led to the ouster of the DA’s Jonathan Lawack as Speaker, and subsequently the entire DA-led coalition government, is still a DA Councillor until he chooses to resign. Even if the DA led-coalition had won the case, they no longer had the numbers to retain their positions if another motion of no confidence is to be quickly brought against them after coalition partner, the Patriotic Alliance jumped ship last week on top of the Councillors that signalled they intend to leave the DA. Judge Johann Huisamen ruled that the DA led-coalition will pay all costs involved in the court case, which dragged in rouge Democratic Alliance (DA) Councillor, Manyathi, Eastern Cape MEC for Corporative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), Fikile Xasa, as well as Bobani and his entire African National Congress (ANC) dominated Mayoral Committee to as well as new Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Speaker, Buyelwa Mafaya. Trollip said that part of the reason he will not be appealing was because a lot of money had been spent already in lodging the court application and by appealing "money would be wasted." Patriotic Alliance Councillor, Marlon Daniels, seemingly dodged a bullet when he pulled out of the DA led-coalition’s court bid, as the PA would also have had to pay the respondents’ legal fees. Trollip, who faced several motions of no confidence since last year, however, said that they will not be moving votes of no confidence of their own anytime soon. He said that when he was Mayor, he had been disappointed by the many "so-called votes of no confidence." Another reason could be because the DA no longer has numbers to see any motions through after three of its 57 councillors showed their willingness to leave the party. "We are all disappointed by what has occurred because we worked hard to come on top as the governing party in this city," Trollip described. "It's sad to be thrown out of the back door like that, but where there was light - there will be light again even though it seems dark for now.”  Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 