 According to updates provided by the SAPS in the Eastern Cape, several busy roads had been blocked off by taxis, who are part of the province-wide taxi strike called for by the South African National Taxi Council (SANTACO). Things were quiet in other towns though. Uitenhage police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart, said that the road to Moses Mabida, in Kirkwood, was blocked off to taxis and buses by the protesting taxi drivers while private vehicles were allowed to pass through. Also in the Highfield road, near Mercantile Roads, in Port Elizabeth, taxis also blocked the road. However, Gelvandale, in Port Elizabeth, is quiet. “In Bethelsdorp- Bloemendal and Chatty blocked off with burning tyres and Algoa Park near the Vista University on the Uitenhage road, taxis blocked off the road and Pondo Road near Kenako Mall is blocked off with burning tyres,” police said. “POPs and stations are in attendance.” Uitenhage Road was re-opened and traffic was flowing normal. In Port Alfred, taxis were operating as normal and the police spokesperson, Colonel Sibongile Soci, said that there had not been any incidents reported. However, the situation was being monitored. Meanwhile, in Grahamstown and Mthatha, the situation is still quiet with no taxis operating. “Mthatha is reporting quiet. All four roots entering town and the CBD are being patrolled. Taxis are operating as usual,” he said. In Peddie, approximately 20 taxis had gathered at the Peddie taxi rank at the time of reporting. Police reported that taxis were still blocking the N2 at Peddie and not allowing motorists to enter or exit Peddie. “They burnt tyres, however the tyres are now extinguished on request of the SAPS.” Grahamstown remains unchanged and quiet. According to Colonel Soci, a meeting is taking place where after they will move to their blocking points as indicated on Tuesday. In Port St Johns, the R61 at Mpantu has been closed and blocked by taxis. The Buffalo City Metropolitan Municipality advised motorists around the King Williams Town area that a SANTACO led protest march would gather at Victoria Grounds in King Williams Town at 09H00. The procession would leave the Victoria Grounds at 10H00 and proceed left into Alyff Road. Then proceed right into Buffalo Road towards Grey Street; left into Grey Street towards Alexandria; then right into Alexandria towards Calatha House. It said that road closures would be affected from 08H00 around the stadium; Buffalo Road and Cathcart Road as well as Alyff Road. “Alexandria Road and Wodehouse Road intersection will be closed near Calatha House,” the BCCM said. “Traffic will be diverted along Cambridge Road and Cathcart Road as well as Maitland Road.” More to follow... 