 Few people may know this, but Port Elizabeth’s Cadbury’s Chocolate factory is the only one of its kind in the entire Country. Established in 1938, by the original Cadbury brothers, the Port Elizabeth chocolate factory is celebrating its 80th year in South Africa and still supplies all the Cadbury’s chocolate for the South African market. Cadbury has a long and rich heritage in South Africa, dating back to 1903, when the Cadbury brothers - Richard and George - brought their chocolate brand to the country and appointed a sales agent to sell their products. The brand’s loyal local following grew quickly, and such was the demand, that the South African arm of Cadbury was formed in 1926 and plans were put in place for the construction of a local chocolate manufacturing plant. Cadbury broke ground in Port Elizabeth in 1930, and by 1938, the first locally-produced Cadbury Dairy Milk chocolate slabs rolled off the production line. The same factory still produces the beloved chocolate brand today and employs over 1250 people. At its birthday celebration, Senior Brand Manager, Hayley Van Niekerk, said “The brand has really stood the test of time, through the loyalty of the Cadbury’s staff and customers. We have a quality product and have always had wonderful advertising, so for this birthday celebration, we just want to acknowledge how far we have come”. The Cadbury’s factory also supports the Port Elizabeth Community, with an aquaponics project, which was established to uplift the local community. Head of Cadbury’s corporate and government affairs, Navisha Bechan-Sewkuran, commented, “Mondelez and Cadbury will invest R37 million rand over four years in a project that focuses on nutrition, education and access to fresh foods and active play for children”. “We have an aquaponics facility at Nelson Mandela University, where we produce fresh, healthy food that then goes to local schools in the Bay area. We work closely with the schools and teachers to teach children about having a healthy lifestyle”. “Cadbury’s and Mondelez want to have a positive impact on the local community” she added. While Cadbury South Africa has been winning new fans for 80 years with its range of innovative chocolate bars and slabs, the brand has also delivered some of the country’s most iconic television commercials. The Chomp hippo remains a childhood favourite for many South Africans, as does Lunch Bar’s ‘Makhatini from Maritzborough’, with ‘Oviaas’ quickly becoming a local 21st century catchphrase from a modern Lunch Bar hero. Cadbury will celebrate its 80th Birthday with the launch of a series of Cadbury Dairy Milk Heritage Packs, showcasing the evolution of the iconic purple packaging over the years. In the spirit of true generosity, Cadbury will also be giving away loads of great gifts in an exciting digital campaign, called ‘Remarkable Regifts’, from 4 to 30 September. Visit their website for more information.   