 A suspect is in hospital under police guard after being arrested by Port Elizabeth police following an attempted robbery incident in New Brighton, which left one other suspect dead. According to police spokesperson Captain Andre Beetge, it is alleged that two suspects attempted to rob the driver and passengers in a Nyathi taxi in Mavuso Road, New Brighton, on Thursday night, at about 20:00. One of the suspects entered the taxi and demanded money from the taxi driver and passengers at gun point. A 42-year-old licensed gun owner, who was one of the passengers, then drew his firearm, shot and killed the suspect. "The suspect fell out of the taxi with his firearm in hand, the second suspect picked up his fellow suspect's firearm," he described. "The gun owner then also fired more shots at the second suspect and wounded him in his leg." Captain Beetge said that Motherwell SAPS Cluster Operational Command Centre members, who were on patrol close by, heard the shots being fired, and on arriving at the scene, arrested the fleeing wounded suspect and confiscated the firearm that was still in his possession. "The deceased suspect was identified as the 32-year-old, Siyabonga Sibhembe, who was a known suspect in drug and firearm related crimes," said Capt Beetge. "The wounded 28-year-old suspect was taken to Livingstone Hospital under police guard. He will face charges of attempted robbery and illegal possession of an unlicensed firearm and ammunition." In an unrelated incident, another man was arrested by police for the illegal possession of a firearm. Capt Beetge said that Motherwell Cluster Highway Patrol members on patrol in Mati Road, New Brighton, and pulled over a suspicious white Mazda 323 at about 23:30 on Thursday. "On searching the 35-year-old driver, an unlicensed firearm with nine rounds ammunition was found in his possession. He will face charges for the illegal possession of an unlicensed fire arm and ammunition," he added. "Both firearms were found with their serial numbers removed and will be sent for ballistic and forensic analysis." Both suspects will appear before in the New Brighton Magistrate's Court on Tuesday to face their charges. Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie said that firearm related crimes will not be tolerated by SAPS. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 