 As far as Vimbai Mazambani can remember, she has always loved working with people. She is currently a Human Resources Consultant and heads up the branch at Staff Solutions’ East London office. Staff Solutions specialises in permanent & short-term employment; general HR services & functions; payroll outsourcing; skills development facilitating; verification/background screening; training and psychometric assessments. “There was no question that a career in Human Resources was where I would find myself,” she tells Business Link. “After, I completed high school, I joined Kenya Airways and KLM as a trainee in Admin and Airport Operations whilst studying for a Diploma in Office Administration and Secretarial Studies.” Soon afterwards, she was awarded a scholarship to study in Japan - where she attained a Bachelor of Social Sciences majoring in Human Resources. “I was employed by the Sony Corporation in Japan as a Human Resources Trainee where I discovered my love for Human Resources,” Mazambani adds. “I then entered the world of recruitment as a Recruitment and HR Solutions Consultant, and eventually joined the Corporate HR world as an HR Executive at Nestle.” She was later promoted to an HR business partner (HRBP) and moved up the ranks in the Food Manufacturing, Construction and Wholesale and Retail Sectors to become Group HR Manager in South Africa, Tanzania, Malawi and Zimbabwe. “Armed with knowledge gained from industry, I found myself back in HR Consulting as a better experienced HR Practitioner and better-placed to ably provide HR solutions backed by global trends,” Mazambani describes. She has since joined Michelle Tuck at one of the successful recruitment agencies in the Eastern Cape, Staff Solutions. “The team at Staff Solutions have welcomed me, giving me the opportunity to continue spreading my wings in HR Consulting,” Mazambani says. “I have been given tremendous support and it has been very easy to build relationships with each of the team members as well as with clients.” Of her new position, Mazambani adds; “I am constantly learning new trends and systems daily, and I’m enjoying every aspect of the journey at Staff Solutions - I can easily see myself growing with the brand in the future. It’s almost as if I have arrived home.” To find out how Staff Solutions can help you, call 043 001 0013 (East London) or 041 585 1464 (Port Elizabeth) or email admin@staffsols.co.za. Alternatively, visit www.staffsolutionsrecruitment.co.za today. 