 The Democratic Alliance (DA) led-coalition that was booted out of office last week doesn't have a case, "all they have is just a wish list and gossip", Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, said on Wednesday. Bobani said that his new administration has received the court papers filed by the DA coalition last week Friday, in which it is challenging the removal of Athol Trollip as the Executive Mayor, as well as the removal of the Speaker, Chief Whip and Trollip's Mayoral Committee. The DA coalition's key argument is that Trollip and others were removed by a Council seating that had no quorum, but through a process engineered by Eastern Cape MEC for Corporative Governance and Traditional Affairs (CoGTA), Fikile Xasa. Bobani and his Mayoral Committeehave, however, argued that the Council meeting was legal and followed all due process as set out by legislation. On Wednesday, he did not want to comment further on the issue since it is an ongoing legal matter, but said that his admistration had instructed its lawyers to oppose the DA coalition's court challenge. The case will again be heard in court on the 13th of September 2018. Responding to allegations that he was already interfering in how the Metro filled vacancies and awards contracts, Bobani said that every new adminitration will implement their own changes. "When a new administration assumes power and responsibility, it must be allowed to infuse new plans in forging a new vision and thinking," he described. With that said, he added that the the newly-elected coalition will engage with all Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Directorates so that they can review current projects and develop new plans. Bobani said that the he has observed the reconnection charges for the water and electricity that has been a major burden for residents of the Bay. "The leadership has agreed that the NMBM Credit Control Policy, which also covers the charges of reconnection fees, be revised and duly channeled through Council," he added. All eyes will be on Friday's Council Meeting, the first one after the reshuffle. Image from left: Deputy Mayor, Tshonono Buyeye, Executive Mayor Mongameli Bobani, Chief Whip Bicks Ndoni 