 There aren’t too many resorts that would list an abundance of good old fresh air as a reason to visit, but the Gooderson Drakensberg Gardens Golf and Spa Resort can confidently say that it has an abundance as well as plenty of fun activities and adventures to make sure that you don’t have to think twice about opening your lungs to a good dose of healthy re-energising oxygen. According to scientists, spending time in the outdoors can make you happier, healthier and sleep better. Simply being located in the beautiful Southern Drakensberg with its crisp mountain air, clear streams and azure skies should be reason enough for city slickers to escape their heavily polluted environments and head for a respiratory clean out. If even a simple walk outside can put a spring in your step and boost your immune system, think about what hiking, horse riding, canoeing, trout fishing or even river rafting at the Gooderson Drakensberg Gardens Golf and Spa Resort can do for you. Apparently, exercise increases natural killer cells which stamp out infections and carcinogens; not to mention the release of plenty of serotonin making you feel happy. We can vouch for the fact that our exciting zip line called “The Rinkhals” - which stretches from halfway up the Beacon Hike down to the popular Adventure Park – is guaranteed to get some healthy adrenaline pumping and send plenty of oxygen into your bloodstream. There’s also the recently completed Skywalker Treetop Rope Course consisting of a series of rope bridges, obstacle courses, climbing nets and zip lines that are suitable for all ages. The trail starts and ends in the Adventure Park, and is perfect for thrill seekers. The course is 100% safe with a continuous clip and go system where one gets to navigate their way across various swing bridges and obstacles. A round of golf on the challenging 18-hole golf course or even a stint on the 12km custom-built mountain biking track, which passes by a dam and through the golf course as well as the lush pine forest, is also known to do the trick. (The latter is suitable for riders at all levels with bikes available from the hotel reception.) Other fun activities available to guests include a cricket field with netted pitch and field, a bow range at the Adventure Park that sees archers shooting over a bridged stream and the Jackal Buzzard Fort, a raised fortress for younger adventurers. Littlies on the lookout for an energy release will also enjoy the kid’s pushbike track and climbing wall. The latter includes a slide and abseiling ramp. Also due to the growth and popularity of mountain biking, Gooderson Drakensberg Gardens Golf & Spa Resort also has a custom built a single track at the resort which they developed. The route is 12km where riders can meander around the resort’s picturesque dam and golf course before testing themselves on a slightly more technical riding through the forest overlooking the resort. If that is not enough activity for a dedicated rider, then head out and follow the 40km trail that surrounds the resort or if you are really fit hit the road to nearby Underberg who has also has built up a network of superb trails. Those who’d like to take a more leisurely approach to plugging into our ready supply of fresh air can take in the beautiful setting of the scenic 350-hectare World Heritage site from beside the swimming pools or hot pool while keeping an eye on their little ones having a fine time at the kids’ water park. A game of bowls or adventure golf is other less strenuous options. The Gooderson Drakensberg Gardens Golf and Spa Resort and have recently introduced six new rooms aptly titled “Cypress”. And for those out looking for the perfect celebration, be it a function, wedding, conference or special event, the Ibis, a covered boma-style venue in Adventure Park that looks onto Rhino Mountain, is just perfect for any special event. For more information go to www.goodersonleisure.co.za 