 The Provincial Commissioner for the Eastern Cape, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga welcomed the sentencing of two Port Elizabeth gang members in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court on Monday. According to police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu, on 28 February, Jezwin Peacock (26) and Nealon Redhouse (18), affiliated to the Spotbouer gang, at the time, were found guilty on two counts of murder, illegal possession of a firearm and illegal possession of ammunition. "Peacock was sentenced  on two counts of murder; a count of possession of a semi-automatic firearm and a count of possession of ammunition. On charges 1 and 2 he was sentenced to 20 years imprisonment each of which half will run concurrent to count 1," she said. "On charges 3 and 4 he received seven years in prison, which will run concurrent with charge 2. Effectively he will serve 30 years imprisonment." Col Naidu said that Redhouse was also sentenced on two counts of murder; a count of possession of a semi-automatic firearm and a count of possession of ammunition. "On charge 1and 2, he was sentenced to 12 years imprisonment each of which half of the sentence of count 2 will run concurrent with count 1," she said. "On charges 3 and 4 he was sentenced to five years imprisonment which will run concurrent with count 1. Effectively he will serve 18 years imprisonment." Col Naidu said that on 1 November 2015, the two accused went to a shack in an open field in Ext 31 Bethelsdorp and gained entry through an open window. "The accused then opened the door and allowed more suspects to enter. The shack was a well-known drug post. The two deceased persons were shot (execution style). "The deceased, Gershwin Morris (approx. age 32) and Bramwell Fortuin (approx. age 34) were not gang members but lived as Rastas selling dagga from this shack. The motive for the killing is believed to be drug related as the deceased were selling drugs not far from the Spotbouer territory," Col Naidu said. "At the time of the offence, all the suspects wore masks and their identities were not known. "Due to meticulous crime scene management and forensic analysis, the two accused were linked through fingerprints found on the window sill and on a mask that was left behind by the suspects." Within two weeks after  the crime, the first accused, Peacock was arrested at another drug den in Kleinskool. About four months later, Redhouse (a juvenile at the time)  was arrested at his house in Barberry Drive Ext 31 Bethelsdorp. "Peacock remained in custody while Redhouse was released on bail," Col Naidu said. "Redhouse is currently charged for two other gang-related murder cases, which he allegedly committed after this case." Lt Gen Ntshinga commended the Provincial Gang Investigation Unit  for their dedication and thorough investigation of their cases. "These successes are as a result of the integrated partnership between the prosecuting authority , investigators and expert forensic analysis. In order to have a successful prosecution a docket must be thoroughly investigated and presented for the case to be heard at court. "These sentences send out a strong warning to gangs who instil fear in the lives of innocent law abiding citizens in the Northern areas that the law will always be victorious and we will not stop in our efforts to ensure that they are sent to prison for a  long time. We, the SAPS  remain resolute in reclaiming the space and creating a safe and secure environment for every citizen of this country," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. 