 A Port Elizabeth father was arrested on Thursday after apparently dangling then throwing his one-year-old daughter from the roof of a shack that was going to be demolished. The incident followed after a demolition operation that was conducted by authorities in the Joe Slovo West area in Kwadwesi, PE. Police officers and the Metro Police were deployed to ensure the safety of the Metro Team doing the demolishing. According to police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, “At about 10:40, a 38 year old man, climbed onto the roof of one of the structures and held his one-year-old girl in his hands.” Apparently, the man was doing that to stop the team from demolishing their housing structures. “Due to the dangerous threat to the safety of the child, police set out a plan of rescue of the girl and to arrest the man,” Captain Beetge continued. “By 11:45, after SAPS and Metro Police surrounded the structure and having a member of the SAPS attempt to talk the man (father) down from the roof for a few minutes, the rescue attempt ensued. As the man was grabbed by police, he threw his child off the roof. "Fortunately, a member of Metro Police caught the girl and the father was arrested. “The 38 year old father will be charged for attempted murder of his daughter. The case will be investigated by the Motherwell Cluster Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) unit. The child will be handed back to her 35 Year old mother while Social Work Services will oversee and give assistance.” Even after the horrifying scenes, the task team continued to complete their task of demolishing the shacks. Captain Beetge said that 90 shacks were destroyed, adding; “During the day, various incidences happened up to 15:00 where a group of about 150 residents attempted to block the R75 (Uitenhage Road) by burning tyres and rubble. SAPS and Metro Police deployed along this route ensured that the road was opened again and safe for traffic flow.” The Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, applauded police members for the safe rescue of the child and added; "It is shocking that a father would attempt to sacrifice his own child for the sake of delaying the demolishing of an illegal shack structure. He will be facing the full result of the Law against his actions." 