 A 38-year-old Port Elizabeth father is expected in court on Monday after he was arrested on Thursday after apparently dangling then throwing his one-year-old daughter from the roof of a shack that was going to be demolished. The incident followed after a demolition operation that was conducted by authorities in the Joe Slovo West area in Kwadwesi, Port Elizabeth. According to police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge, “At about 10:40, a 38 year old man, climbed onto the roof of one of the structures and held his one-year-old girl in his hands.” Apparently, the man was doing that to stop the team from demolishing their housing structures. “Due to the dangerous threat to the safety of the child, police set out a plan of rescue of the girl and to arrest the man,” Captain Beetge continued. “By 11:45, after SAPS and Metro Police surrounded the structure and having a member of the SAPS attempt to talk the man (father) down from the roof for a few minutes, the rescue attempt ensued. As the man was grabbed by police, he threw his child off the roof. "Fortunately, a member of Metro Police caught the girl and the father was arrested. “The 38-year-old father will be charged for attempted murder of his daughter. The case will be investigated by the Motherwell Cluster Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) unit. The child will be handed back to her 35-year-old mother while Social Work Services will oversee and give assistance.” Even after the horrifying scenes, the task team continued to complete their task of demolishing the shacks. Meanwhile, the African National Congress (ANC) in the Nelson Mandela Bay region on Friday blamed the Democratic Alliance (DA) for the incident. It said that if it had not been for the DA’s apartheid police tactics while removing the illegal settlement, the incident would not have occurred. The DA is expected to attend the trial of the man. “What this father did, endangering his own child for the sake of a political protest, amounts to gross domestic abuse,” added DA Eastern Cape Leader and Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC for Human Settlement, Nqaba Bhanga. “The DA will also use this opportunity to applaud Constable Luyolo Nojulumba for rescuing the infant in Joe Slovo, Kwadwesi Township, in Port Elizabeth. “We urge all police members, especially those, who work in the Family Violence, Child Protection and Sexual Offences (FCS) units, to work diligently to bring justice to the victims and survivors of sexual abuse and domestic violence.” 