 Two alleged murder and attempted murder suspects are expected in court on Monday after they were arrested at a house in Booysens Park over the weekend for incidents, which took place on Friday, in Greenfields, Bethelsdorp. According to police information, the duo was arrested by members of Bethesldorp Crime Prevention Unit, who were following up on information received relating to the suspects. "It is alleged that on Friday, the three suspects went to a house in Greenfields looking for a person. When they did not find the person at the house, two gunshots were fired and they left," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The suspects then went to the house of the wanted person and when told by the father that his son is not at home, they allegedly shot the father, Christopher Jacobs (41) in his neck. He died on the scene." Col Naidu added that the suspects ran away. "Suspects are  affiliated to the Gavy Boys while the victim has no gang affiliation." The two suspects, aged 23 and 32 years old, will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates’ Court on Monday on charges of murder and attempted murder. "In a separate incident , during the early hours of Sunday morning, a 23-year-old man was fatally shot in Moeggesukkel in Ext 34 in Bethelsdorp," said Col Naidu. "It is alleged that two cousins were sitting in a shack and one left to buy cigarettes. "At about 02:00 as he was returning to the shack, he heard the sound of a gunshot. As he neared the shack, he found his cousin Atshwaxola Maliza lying outside the shack." She said that he sustained a gunshot wound under his armpit. "Suspect and motive is unknown. The incident is not gang related however at about 02:25, Bethelsdorp Crime Prevention members arrested a  20-year-old suspect in Cherry Avenue not far from the crime scene with a .38 revolver and ammunition," Col Naidu. "The suspect is detained for illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition and will appear in court on Monday." She said that police are investigating whether the suspect may be linked to the murder of Maliza. The Cluster Commander for Mount Road, Maj General Thembisile Patekile, commended members of Bethelsdorp Crime Prevention Unit for their vigilance and speedy response. "The correct deployment of members in hotspot areas will definitely enhance response times to crime scenes.  The quick response of these members ensured successful arrests and confiscation of a firearm in  these serious cases," added Maj Gen Patekile. 