 Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, recently led a working visit to China, which aimed at creating jobs and promoting investment opportunities in the Eastern Cape. The Eastern Cape delegation included Rural Development and Agrarian Reform MEC, Mlibo Qoboshiyane; Finance MEC, Sakhumzi Somyo, and the Executive Mayor of Buffalo City, Councillor Xola Pakati. During the visit, the Shenzen Hengyue Industrial Development Company signed an R300 million investment in a tile manufacturing plant, which will be situated in the East London Development Zone. The manufacturer, which is based in Guangdong Province, signed an investment deal that will result in the creation of 500 jobs in the initial stages and will grow to 1 000 jobs when operations are in full swing. According to the Premier’s Office, these “future sectoral agreements include trade in fisheries, dairy products, horticulture crops, macadamia nuts, maritime economy, renewable energy and capacity building as well as exchange programmes between universities and TVET colleges”. MEC Somyo said that the visit was also looking at forming a partnership that will ensure developments in East London. “The company which manufactures tiles which could even broader than what we have initiated in terms of that signature,” he described. “The manufacturing of these strong ceramic tiles would require special clay.” Masualle said: “Whatever is the effort that is that is taking place at a National level as pronounced in the recent pronouncement by the president. “We are also complementing an effort by actually be getting on the ground to speak as well as in the investor community through the bilateral arrangements we have and that we shall have towards the end of June, July at such a delegation that is going to be headed by that, also we are hosting breakfast as the country this coming year,” he described. He added that they are looking at having programmes that will assist students, also individuals with professional skills that would assist a lot in Technical and Vocational Education and Training (TVET) sector and college. “There is over time experience that has been acquired by some of the institutions that we came across in the visit there,” the Premier said. “A cohort of students that we can send there and some of the lectures, to engage our college sector towards at looking at ways to improve the provision of skills, particularly for the youth and make them relevant to the economy.” 