 Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, has applauded the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit, which had been roped in to assist with the investigation relating to a house robbery that took place on a farm in the Sunlands area, Addo on Saturday evening. "It is alleged that at about 18:40, a 63-year-old man went outside to feed his horses and upon entering his home, he was attacked by about three unknown males. "The suspects assaulted him with an axe and demanded the keys to his safe and fled with three firearms, electronic equipment and forced the complainant into his white Isuzu LDV and they drove to a neighbouring farm," described police spokeesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "The suspects then ordered the complainant to open the neighbour’s house and they ransacked the neighbour’s house also. The family was out of town at the time and the complainant was looking after their premises." At this premises, the suspects allegedly took the safe, which also contained firearms, and they drove off to a residence, believed to be somewhere in Motherwell, with the complainant. "The complainant was tied up and kept in a room for the duration of the night. Early on Sunday morning, the suspects took the complainants credit cards and used it at a shopping centre in Port Elizabeth," she said. "The suspects then returned home and later drove the complainant to a service station near Njoli Square, KwaZakhele, Port Elizabeth where they released the victim and returned his LDV bakkie. "The complainant managed to drive back to his farm and alerted the local police at about 15:30 on Sunday about the incidents. "The complainant was taken to a hospital where he was admitted with head and arm injuries." Captain Swart said that the breakthrough was made at about 20:00 on Monday night, when the team searched the residential homes of the suspects in Addo. "Two firearms and ammunition were also recovered at the time of the arrests and will be sent for ballistic testing. The investigations are continuing and the search for the outstanding firearms are ongoing." “The dedication and tireless hours of our investigators in ensuring the successful and speedy arrests of perpetrators paid off last night, 16 /4 four suspects aged between 26 and 41 were behind bars in less than 24-hours after allegedly committing the offences,” said General Ntshinga The four suspects will face several charges including attempted murder, house robbery and abduction and additional charges may be added. They are due to appear in the Addo Magistrate's Court on Thursday. “The safety of our farming community remains one of our priorities, and we will endeavour to ensure their safety at all costs, however we need the assistance of the Eastern Cape community to continue to work with the SAPS,” said Lt Gen Ntshinga. 