 The family of missing Ironman competitor, David Rene Roger Bellet-Brissaud, who disappeared in Port Elizabeth on Friday ahead of this past weekend’s Standard Bank IRONMAN Africa Championship, on Monday made an appeal for his safe return and announced a R12 000 reward to anyone with information on his whereabouts. David reportedly arrived from Gabon in Port Elizabeth on Thursday with his wife Lydia, ahead of the Standard Bank Ironman African Championship. His wife later noticed that he had gone missing early on Friday morning. David’s family arrived in Port Elizabeth on Sunday night.  David’s brother, Gael Berret-Bissaud and sister, Vanessa Perret Bellet-Brissaud, described him as a normal guy, whose whole life was sport and his family. “My brother David doesn’t drink alcohol or smoke cigarettes or do anything with drugs. He is not a man with enemies and he worked at the same forestry company for the last 15 years,” said Vanessa. Gael added; “I will give R12 000 to people who can give us concrete information on my brother. “It’s not logical, why was he outside the hotel at one in the morning, when he has the competition coming up soon? And now we have the hotel CCTV footage seeing my brother walking outside at one in the morning, why? He had no phone, no papers, nothing. I don’t understand why.” Port Elizabeth police have sent out K9 and dive units to search for him. Police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu, stated that the investigation is continuing and they have been investigating since the wife reported him missing. “We have been with the wife since Friday morning and used whatever information she could give us to carry out the investigation,” said Col Naidu. She stated that though he had been wearing a Garmin watch, the model he had did not come with a tracker so they could not utilise that method to locate him. “We are appealing to members of the public to please assist. We have sent out fliers around the beach area, hospitals and mortuaries, if anyone can identify him they must please contact us.” For those, who have any information on his whereabouts, you are encouraged to contact the branch detective at 083 380 3714. 