 The Democratic Alliance (DA)-led coalition government in Nelson Mandela Bay on Tuesday said that its zero tolerance of criminality was vindicated after justice was served "on a delinquent local ANC leader and councillor". This after African National Congress (ANC) PR Councillor in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro, Andile Lungisa, was found guilty of assault with the intent to cause Grievous Bodily Harm (GBH). Lungisa faced charges of assaulting DA councillor, Rano Kayser, and allegedly smashed a glass jug filled with water over Kayser’s head during a brawl that broke out a Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality council meeting in October 2016. As a result of that brawl, DA Chief Whip, Werner Senekal, was also injured. Kayser had to be rushed to hospital bleeding from a huge gush on his head while Senekal was allegedly stabbed in the back with a sharp object by ANC Councillor, Gamilihleli Maqula. Reports suggested that trouble began when the ANC, which is now in opposition, objected to an item on the municipality's confidential green paper. In the ensuing chaos, glass water jugs were thrown at Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, the Speaker and Councillors. An ANC female Councillor collapsed in the mayhem and was also ferried to hospital. Port Elizabeth police had to be called in to restore order after a security guard fired two warning shots while trying to control the fighting Councillors. Kayser and Senekal later laid charges against Lungisa and Maqula. The ANC blamed the fiasco on the DA. Last year, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, revealed that he had written to Eastern Cape Premier, Phumulo Masualle, and former Police Minister, Fikile Mbalula, after Kayser and Senekal received verified serious threats on their lives - possibly because they had laid charges against the Lungisa and Maqula. According to the Mayor, the death threats were sent to the Senekal and Kayser via SMS and the DA-led coalition were not taking chances by laying criminal charges against those behind the threats. The ANC in the Nelson Mandela Bay denied the alleged death threats. On the verdict "He is the second ANC councillor in NMB recently found guilty of a criminal offence. Bongo Nombiba was last month convicted on charges of fraud and money laundering," said Mlindi Nhanha - DA Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson. "This underlines the lack of credibility and proves our long held assertion that the ANC caucus in NMB cannot be entrusted with people’s lives and money. "The DA challenges the ANC to implement its conference resolution and remove these two convicted criminals. "Indeed our justice system has once again proved its independence by making it clear that nobody is above the law regardless of the high position you occupy." Nhanha said that the DA-led coalition in NMB has zero tolerance for criminal behaviour and this shows that the DA will stop at nothing to ensure that those responsible for criminal activities are brought to justice. 