 Strategically-led creative for Boomtown’s recent campaign for Ricoffy, saw the brand achieve tremendous growth 2017. And it was through culturally led insights from the Boomtown strategy team’s research that creative effectiveness was realised. It is due to this continued success, that Boomtown has further bolstered its team of strategists for an industry-leading strategic offering. Helna Brown, an experienced senior designer (Btech in Graphic Design) and user experience (UX) specialist (13 years) with a great understanding of consumer buying behaviour has moved from the Boomtown creative department and joins Lara-Anne Derbyshire who holds a BA Honours degree in Psychology, Clinical, Counselling and Applied Psychology and over ten years advertising experience. “Helna and Lara-Anne’s combined expertise and interests are huge assets to the team,” remarks Boomtown Strategic Director, Glen Meier. “Their design and advertising backgrounds are invaluable in the strategic brand positioning process from an understanding perspective and the creation of sales tactics.” On her move from creative to strategy, Helna Brown remarks: “The strategic approach to UX problem-solving and the holistic Boomtown-approach means the move is a natural progression and use of my skill-set and passions.” The team now includes: Director of Strategy Glen Meier, Head of Strategy Stuart Innell and strategists Helna Brown and Lara-Anne Derbyshire. Meier adds: “We underpin all our creative and campaign work on solid, immersive research, culturally relevant insights and strategy. It leads into the creative process, and is then aligned at every step to make sure that the creative is strategically on-point, connecting with the right audience and delivering results which impact the bottom line. “Creative and campaign strategies are developed to answer specific deliverables in client briefs, and our creative brings the strategy to life. At the end of the day it simply boils down to delivering a fantastic return to our clients.” Image: L to R: Stuart Innell, Helna Brown, Lara-Anne Derbyshire, Glen Meier 