 As the debate over land expropriation without compensation heats up, the leader of the Patriotic Alliance (PA) Gayton McKenzie, who was in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality on Wednesday following another failed attempt by opposition parties to remove Mayor, Athol Trollip, on Wednesday insisted that 'black' people have no right to claim the land when it in actual fact it belongs to the Khoi-San. The Khoi-San are historically regarded as the first inhabitants of Southern Africa. During heated exchanges at the Special Council Meeting that was meant to discuss Trollip's future as Mayor, the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), who said they would punish the Democratic Alliance (DA) for not supporting land expropriation without compensation by removing Trollip, highlighted how Jan van Riebeeck, who was born in April, arrived at the Cape in April and came to “steal the land of our people”. However, the Patriotic Alliance's (PA), Marlon Daniels, on Wednesday told a media briefing; “When they started shouting that land was taken from their forefathers, I was surprised to hear that from the people, who were not down here and up in East Africa where they migrated from - if we reflect back on history. "They are also saying that this side of Africa belongs to their forefathers, which is not true. “There is a first nation, who can claim the rightful ownership of land.” Daniels said that politicians have to start thinking about that before making claims over the land. He added that the land issue must be thoroughly discussed by reflecting back on history. “You can’t want to have spent your life working at Pick n' Pay and then go to Shoprite to collect your pay. We must give recognition to people, who have been there, slaving and working on the land all along until it was stolen from them," Daniels said. “The current status quo is as if the coloured people have no say; as if the Khoi people have no say and we cannot sit back and say it is okay when blacks say that they are the only ones that must take the land." McKenzie said that people should not just end at 1652 - when van Riebeeck arrived at the Cape, when they talk about land, but should go further back in time. Watch the video for more of Gayton McKenzie:  