 The South African Revenue Service (SARS) will continue to apply normal income tax rules to cryptocurrencies, it said on Friday. The revenue service said it expects affected taxpayers to declare cryptocurrency gains or losses as part of their taxable income. “The onus is on taxpayers to declare all cryptocurrency-related taxable income in the tax year in which it is received or accrued.  Failure to do so could result in interest and penalties,” said the revenue service. SARS said taxpayers, who are uncertain about specific transactions involving cryptocurrencies, may seek guidance from it through channels such as Binding Private Rulings (depending on the nature of the transaction). “Increased attentiveness and speculation regarding the future of cryptocurrencies has prompted calls for SARS to provide direction as to how cryptocurrencies should be treated for tax purposes. However…. there is an existing tax framework that can guide SARS and affected taxpayers on the tax implications of cryptocurrencies, making a separate Interpretation Note unnecessary for now.” Cryptocurrency like Bitcoin is an internet-based digital currency that exists almost wholly in the virtual realm. A growing number of proponents support its use as an alternative currency that can pay for goods and services, much like conventional currencies. The revenue service said in South Africa, the word “currency” is not defined in the Income Tax Act (the Act). “Cryptocurrencies are neither official South African tender nor widely used and accepted in South Africa as a medium of payment or exchange. As such, cryptocurrencies are not regarded by SARS as a currency for income tax purposes or Capital Gains Tax (CGT). Instead, cryptocurrencies are regarded by SARS as assets of an intangible nature.” SARS said while not constituting cash, cryptocurrencies can be valued to ascertain an amount received or accrued as envisaged in the definition of “gross income” in the Tax Act. “Following normal income tax rules, income received or accrued from cryptocurrency transactions can be taxed on revenue account under “gross income”. Alternatively such gains may be regarded as capital in nature, as spelt out in the Eighth Schedule to the Act for taxation under the CGT paradigm.” It said taxpayers are also entitled to claim expenses associated with cryptocurrency accruals or receipts, provided such expenditure is incurred in the production of the taxpayer’s income and for purposes of trade. Base cost adjustments can also be made if falling within the CGT paradigm. Value-Added Tax (VAT) The 2018 annual budget review indicated that the VAT treatment of cryptocurrencies will be reviewed. “Pending policy clarity in this regard, SARS will not require VAT registration as a vendor for purposes of the supply of cryptocurrencies,” said the revenue service. – SAnews.gov.za 