 The national leader of the Patriotic Alliance (PA), Gayton McKenzie, who was in the Bay on Wednesday following another failed attempt by opposition parties to unseat Nelson Mandela Bay Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, through a motion of no confidence called out Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader, Julius Malema, saying he is "a small boy, who gives himself war tittles, but never been involved in a street fight". “With only one sit in the Bay, PA has been seen to be the kingmakers and come 2019, we will continue to be kingmakers,” McKenzie told journalists. McKenzie added that the PA party is not like the African National Congress (ANC) that is facing a war on their way to 2019 "while busy shooting each other". “Come 2019, we will be king makers because we are saying that white and black can work together to build this country," he described. “South Africa is a beautiful country, we are so integrated already - therefore, we should get over our problems and build this country." McKenzie, a reformed gangster, who was released from prison in 2003, said that he has heard of people talking about war while they have never been in a street fight. “They give each other war names and serious tittles like ‘Commander in Chief’. Who does Malema think he is, he is a small boy,” McKenzie said. He emphasised that Malema doesn’t stand a chance with him, adding “he can chase people like Jacob Zuma, but not me; not the PA”. “He must not come here and say he is ruling the country, if he cannot even remove Trollip, then how can he say he is ruling the country. “When you are so used to shouting old people and insulting old people and old people bowing in front of you, it makes you think that you control all of us, but not here," McKenzie laughed, then continued, "No man, Malema is a small boy he mustn’t play here. “Trollip is going nowhere and until 2021, Trollip has the kingmakers in his corner Malema must know. “We still consider the African National Congress as our friends, but we also made a new friend with the Democratic Alliance, but our friend should not vote against us.” 