 The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's dam levels are fast approaching the 20 percent mark as their combined levels this week reached 24%. "Although the Nooitgedagt  Low Level Water Scheme will provide additional water security to Nelson Mandela Bay, however, not all supply sources can be supplemented from the same water system. As a result, further water restrictions will inevitably follow if the situation deteriorates even further," described Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip. "With only 10.37% of recorded water supply, Kouga Dam is the most affected, while Churchill Dam languishes at 18.08%. The other dams, namely Groendal and Impofu, have a recorded supply of 48.37% and 36.81%,a clear sign of hard times ahead. "The City will need to strengthen its water conservation efforts to avert a looming disaster." The Mayor said that with no prediction of meaningful rains soon, the new water levels call for a renewed sense of commitment from all Metro residents, businesses and other relevant stakeholders. "While we acknowledge the impact the Municipality's water saving awareness campaigns have had since their initial roll-out, the Metro continues to experience high water consumption from both domestic users and businesses. "As the administration, we wish to make a clarioncall on residents to assist in preventing a drought disaster by monitoringtheir household consumption and further tightening their water conservation efforts," he added. "We also appreciate the continued vigilance fromresidents who are consistently reporting water leaks. Through their efforts, wehave been able to repair 5938 water leaks during the first three months of2018. "Our efforts to save water have been supported byboth internal plumbing teams and appointed contractors." Trollip said that with only 10.37% of recorded water supply, Kouga Dam is the most affected, while Churchill Dam languishes at 18.08%. The other dams, namely Groendal and Impofu, have a recorded supply of 48.37% and 36.81%, a clear sign of hard times ahead. "The City will need to strengthen its water conservation efforts to avert a looming disaster. "With no prediction of meaningful rains soon, the new water levels call for a renewed sense of commitment from all Metro residents, businesses and other relevant stakeholders," the Mayor explained. "While we acknowledge the impact the Municipality's water saving awareness campaigns have had since their initial roll-out, the Metro continues to experience high water consumption from both domestic users and businesses. "As the administration, we wish to make a clarion call on residents to assist in preventing a drought disaster by monitoring their household consumption and further tightening their water conservation efforts. "We also appreciate the continued vigilance from residents who are consistently reporting water leaks. Through their efforts, we have been able to repair 5938 water leaks during the first three months of 2018. "Our efforts to save water have been supported by both internal plumbing teams and appointed contractors." 