 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Nelson Mandela Bay on Tuesday expressed its condolences at the passing of struggle stalwart, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, on Monday afternoon. ANC Regional Secretary, Themba Xathula, said that “the ANC in the Nelson Mandela Region lowers its banners in honour of our beloved Mother, Icon and Heroine of our Liberation Struggle.” Madikizela-Mandela was married on the 14th of June 1958 to the late former President, Nelson Mandela. He was, however,  arrested in November 1962. For her part in the struggle, Madikizela-Mandela lived under constant harassment from the then apartheid government. The couple had two children Zindziswa Mandela and Zenani Mandela. They later divorced on 19 March 1996 - two years after Mandela became South Africa's first democratic President. Since the announcement of her death, social media has been buzzing with many people expressing how sad they are, quoting her words and posting her old pictures. Xathula said that they also want to join in remembering Mamu Winnie as a strong woman, who was resilient, courageous and a committed cadre of the ANC. “She stood fast during difficult times of Apartheid colonialism along the side of the oppressed of the majority of our people. “A true Mother of the Nation, who took the young and women under her wing to guide on the methods of the struggle," he described. “The ANC made a clarion call to render Apartheid unworkable and the country ungovernable. Mamu Winnie led the roaring Young Lions at the front and continued to bring hope to the masses of our people. “She unbanned the ANC whereas it was banned by the Apartheid regime. The 1994 Democratic breakthrough came to being due to the pressure put by our icon, mobilizing people for freedom which we attained. She was the Voice of the voiceless and the symbol of a struggle against oppression." He added that the ANC NMB region shared a bond with her during her visits. “We call upon our members to enjoy the life well spent and reflect on the gains that freedom has brought us through the endeavours of Mamu Winnie. She was dedicated to fighting the scourge of unemployment, poverty and hunger," Xathula added. “God has chosen to take her during one of the important months of our calendar, the Heroes’ month. You join the branch of gallant fighters, O.R. Tambo, Chris Hani, Solomon Mahlangu and many unsung heroes of our revolution.”  