 April is here and it is in all probability your worst financial reality check. You may possibly even call it your ‘financial doomsday’ – the 2018 VAT rate increase.  And, if you think that “there’s nothing to it” – you’d better THINK AGAIN. “As of the 1st of April almost every monthly expense will increase by 1% and there are tough times ahead,” says Matthys Potgieter (spokesperson and debt expert at DebtSafe). If you usually spent R11 400 on your monthly expenses (VAT included), you will now spend R100 more. Or, if you usually spent R22 800 on your monthly expenses (including VAT), you will now have to pay R200 more. “It all adds up in the end,” states Potgieter. “If you look at goods and services exempted from VAT – it refers to non-fee related financial services, educational services provided by an approved educational institution, residential rental accommodation and public road or rail transport,” mentions Potgieter. There are also certain goods and services that are zero-rated like exports, international transport services, farming inputs, certain grants by the government and basic foodstuffs (such as brown bread, maize meal, milk, rice, vegetables, eggs or lentils for example). Here are a few things that will have an influence on your financial environment: “The above ‘small amounts’ can be misleading to the eye and as previously mentioned, it all adds up. The VAT increase will undoubtedly affect your pocket and the time to take responsibility for your financial situation is NOW,” highlights Potgieter. “And how can I do that exactly?” you may ask. Potgieter shares a few things that you can do to try and keep your debt to the bare minimum and, to also become a responsible money-savvy consumer especially during tough economic times: Don’t let the VAT increase be the master of your financial fate. But, be the chief of your own financial environment by adding small, yet efficient, behaviour tweaks in the way you manage your finances. You will not regret it. The time is NOW. 