 Mayor Dudley Coetzee, Director of Economic Development and Tourism Solomzi Madikane with the Cape Whale Coast tourism manager Frieda Lloyd and fellow councillors Fanie Krige, Grant Cohen and Charmaine Resandt were recently joined by a vibrant group of Kleinmond business persons for a breakfast and a conversation about the contribution of Hangklip-Kleinmond to the Overstrand’s economy. The breakfast meeting was hosted by the Hangklip-Kleinmond Business Forum. Speaking at the meeting, the Mayor stated that tourism is the mainstay of the Cape Whale Coast economy and said the Hangklip-Kleinmond area, with its many and varied attractions, contributes significantly to the economy of the Overstrand. “Clarence Drive, one of the world’s most scenic routes, runs right through the centre of this area bringing tourists not only to the Hangklip-Kleinmond area but to the Overstrand in general.” “Besides the natural beauty of this area, a number of prominent artists, actors, writers and photographers have chosen to settle here. This brings a certain charm to the area as well as a great following of visitors wishing to experience their works. In addition to the very popular actor Marius Weyers who settled in this area, Neels van Jaarsveld (“met eish ja met eish”) also recently brought his creative flair and influence to the region. The value added to our economy by these creative people and the influence of their work impact positively on the economy of the Overstrand,” he enthused. The Potters Gallery in Kleinmond supplies some of South Africa’s top restaurants with crockery, and it is always heart-warming to see the produce of our own area adorning the tables of restaurants throughout the country. Betty’s Bay is home to a unique colony of African penguins. These penguins have made their home at the old Waaigat Whaling Station at Stony Point. This unique colony of these endangered penguins is the only one that is known to be increasing while elsewhere in the country the species is dwindling. The Hangklip-Kleinmond area falls within the Kogelberg Biosphere which was South Africa’s first registered biosphere and stretches from Gordon’s Bay to Kleinmond. This biosphere covers approximately 18 000 hectares and is one of only eight UNESCO heritage sites in South Africa. Local businesses play an essential part in the growth and development of our economy. There are a range of factors that affect businesses and their potential to grow. The most important of these are the markets they serve. Businesses grow based on their ability to compete in the market place. Local businesses are the drivers for creating jobs, providing services and products and improving the quality of life of our local residents, whilst simultaneously enhancing the experience of tourists in our area. Arabella Hotel and Spa with its 145 rooms and championship golf course and conference centre also attracts large numbers of business tourists to the Overstrand. The golf course is rated as one of South Africa’s top-ten golf courses. “Add to all of this the harbour front development in Kleinmond as well as one of the Overstrand’s Blue Flag Beaches and this golf course where we are meeting this morning and it is plain to see that the Hangklip-Kleinmond area makes a generous contribution to tourism in the area and thus also to the economic development of the Overstrand,” he said. In closing, he urged the Business Forum to ensure that businesses - big and small - have a voice and that this voice is used to further develop the potential of this beautiful area. 