 In a world where quick access to data has become the key to efficiency, global specialist in energy management, Schneider Electric South Africa’s latest innovation in the Magelis range of HMI solutions – Magelis GTU –allows users to create the perfect HMI for their application by simply snapping together the panel box and display of their choice. As easy and comfortable to use as a smartphone or tablet and ideal for applications in the food and beverage, mining, mineral and wastewater industries, Magelis GTU has been optimised for the latest HMI configuration software from Schneider Electric - Vijeo XD - and features intuitive navigation and numerous connectivity options, including remote access. “The first smartphone-like HMI with a resistive multi-touch screen, Magelis GTU is easy to integrate with system architecture thanks to an unmatched variety of embedded interfaces: dual Ethernet Gigabit port for network connectivity, dual serial and one optional fieldbus interface for easy communication with industrial devices. It also features up to four USB ports for connecting peripherals while minimising wiring, making it a cost-effective solution,” says Luthando Makiwane Easy navigation and operation Magelis GTU offers unmatched ease and comfort of use for both the application developer and operator, and thanks to industrial multitouch, users can zoom in/out, swipe, and scroll through intuitive menus while wearing protective gloves, or through a protective screen cover. The high resolution, 16-million colour screen delivers a crystal-clear view of the same key functions and tools as a PC, including Office viewer, Adobe viewer, Internet Explorer, and a multimedia player. “Adding to the convenience of the system, Magelis GTU applications can also be accessed through a second display via the DVI interface and managed remotely through the Vijeo Design’Air app for mobile devices. This app also allows for remote machine commissioning, as well as real-time monitoring and diagnostics,” Makiwane says. Simplified maintenance The modular design of Magelis GTU enables full optimisation of parts inventory, and maintenance is reduced to a minimum thanks to the robust aluminium housing, and wide-ranging power supply (12-24VDC) and temperature (0-60°C). Making data easily accessible at all times, the display size and type can be changed or replaced without any special tools while still protecting all system and user data with removable memory units. The application is automatically resized to fit the new display, and through a front USB port with IP66/67 protection, HMI data can be accessed and copied conveniently at any moment without opening the cabinet door. “Today, the fastest, easiest way to tap into real-time information is via mobile, wireless service devices. Schneider Electric South Africa is dedicated to providing the latest in technological advancements, and the highly customisable Magelis GTU promises a wealth of features for robust performance, open connectivity, and secure data flow,” he says. 