 Drug syndicates operating in the Port Elizabeth area were once again dealt a major blow when members of Port Elizabeth K9 unit seized dagga worth almost R2 million on Wednesday. "The major bust resulted in the arrest of three men today, at three houses on a smallholding in Chelsea," said police spokesperson, Capt Johan Rheeder. "It is alleged that members acted on a 'tip off' of dagga being grown and processed at these houses. "Several dagga plants were found growing around the houses as well as dagga being dried and processed inside." A bag containing dagga in small packets was also found already packed and possibly ready for sale. "The three males, aged between 24-52, were arrested and detained on charges of cultivation of dagga, dealing in dagga and possession of dagga. They will appear in the PE Magistrate's Court on Thursday. Some of the police successes so far In January 2018, a 58 year old woman was arrested and charged for dealing, possession and cultivation of dagga after police discovered over 1 000 trees of dagga growing on a smallholding in Kragga Kamma. "On further inspection of a caravan and house, 300L of pure alcohol, measuring syringes, dry dagga, dagga oil and containers were found inside," said Capt Rheeder. In March 2018, two suspects were arrested at a house in Lorraine after police discovered a hydroponic drug laboratory. Drugs worth R500 000 was seized and two suspects arrested. The Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the members of K9 for their excellent arrests and confiscation. "The eradication and clamping down on illicit sale, manufacture and dealing of drugs continue to be the focus in the Mount Road Policing Cluster. "There is no place for drug dens in our areas and we will continue in our efforts in the battle against drug trafficking and substance abuse. The prevalence of drugs in the communities is a concern and we will not rest until these drug pedlars/traffickers are arrested and their trade crippled permanently," commented Maj Gen Patekile. 