 In his 2018 State of the Nation Address, President Cyril Ramaphosa encouraged South Africans to “open their homes and their hearts to the world”[ii]. He also indicated that “our prosperity as a nation depends on our ability to take full advantage rapid technological change.” Technology in tourism is fast becoming a vital aspect of South Africa’s future. Mike van Lier, Director of Consumer Electronics for Samsung South Africa, says, “How technology can be integrated into hospitality has been considered and developed by Samsung; we offer a complete solution for hotels. From self-check-in to optimised building management, the future of travel in South Africa looks to be revolutionary.” Here’s what travellers can expect from Smart Hospitality: Connected Guest Experiences Some hotel chains already have Smart Key apps which are integrated into Smartphones which allows guests to receive check-in information and unlock their doors using their mobile device. In-room control enables guests to remotely control the air conditioning, lights and curtains in their room – this also has energy saving benefits for the hotel operator. Not to forget the all-important in-room entertainment system. Guests can check their hotel accounts via the smart Hotel TV solution and avoid the queues at the lobby reception by using an express check out function and receive their invoices via email. Shopping and Information Most consumers are accustomed digital displays within retail areas by now. Hotels can now offer guests a similar experience through interactive information available at a touch of a button on their Hotel TV remote control which already includes menus for food and a plethora of in-house hotel experiences. Business Travellers Samsung’s business solutions are vast and apart from connectivity, many businesses use hotels for brainstorming and meeting activities. The Samsung E-board with touch-screen display or the new Flip, with digital flip-board capability and integrated connectivity, are just two tools that greatly enhance businesses collaborative communication. “It’s not just guests who benefit from the seamless service offered by technology; Samsung has solutions for optimised hotel operations, smart building management, as well as staff communication through wearables and mobile devices,” concludes van Lier. Travellers will be in full control of their hotel experience, whether it’s turning off lights, changing the air conditioning temperature or checking in and out at a convenient time. One thing is for sure, the butler most certainly won’t be doing any of it.    