 Nelson Mandela Bay Council Speaker permanently adjourned Tuesday’s Special Council Meeting after the Eastern Cape leader of the Democratic Alliance (DA), Nqaba Bhanga, who is also the Bay’s MMC for Human Settlements, was booed while paying tribute to the late struggle icon, Winnie Madikizela-Mandela. The meeting had been pushed forward 12 days after another Special Council Meeting that was meant to decide the future of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Athol Trollip; the Chief Whip, the Speaker and Portfolio Councillors, collapsed amid chaos. At the start of Tuesday’s meeting, Council Speaker, Jonathan Lawack, made it clear that if any disruptions occurred again he would permanently adjourn the meeting. After several parties had been allowed a chance to pay their tributes to Winnie Mandela, it was the DA’s turn and Bhanga was the one, who would pay the DA’s homage. However, he was booed from the onset and accused of murder while delivering his speech. According to the African National Congress (ANC), Andile Lungisa, Bhanga bears a black cloud, which means he is not allowed to talk about a great icon and heroine of the nation such as Winnie Madikizela Mandela. “Nqaba Bhanga took a municipal car along with a security to a tavern.He drank until he couldn’t remember his name, and they were with young girls in that car,” Lungisa said. “Bhanga and that security were a result of a car accident that took lives of two young girls. “We cannot allow a person of that calibre to talk about the heroine of South Africa, Mama Winnie Mandela while a black cloud is hanging over him.” Lungisa said that, as the black caucus – the opposition parties, they do not have a problem with the DA paying tribute to the late Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, but have a problem with Bhanga as the person chosen to do so. He alleged that the car was taken by the police and the members of the DA to a hiding place, which explains why the case was never prosecuted. Apparently, this happened about two to three months ago. The black caucus said that they would call another Special Council Meeting to table the motions against Trollip and the DA-led coalition.  