 The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Council Speaker, Jonathan Lawack, on Thursday announced the date for the continuation of the Special Council Meeting that is meant to decide the future of Athol Trollip as Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor. The meeting has suffered two postponements already owing to violent disruptions after the opposition parties accused Lawack of changing the order of the agenda in order to protect himself and the rest of the Democratic Alliance (DA) coalition leaders that are facing motions of no confidence. In the last meeting, Lawack announced a “permanent adjournment”, which was celebrated by the DA as a victory. However, United Democratic Movement (UDM) Regional Chairperson, Mongameli Bobani, and African National Congress (ANC) Councillor, Andile Lungisa, argued that “there was nothing in the rules book as a permanent adjournment of a meeting”. Meanwhile, the Economic Freedom Fighters’ (EFF), Zilindile Vena, said that the meeting would continue, “there won’t be any other council meeting that will continue until the special council meeting with these motions is passed”. Coincidentally, the announcement of the continuation of the meeting came after the ANC - and ultimately, the opposition parties lost one Councillor, Bongo Nobimba, who was sentenced to five years direct imprisonment for fraud and corruption on Thursday. Lawack said that the meeting will continue on the 10th of May, which again coincides with the date when Lungisa will be in court for sentencing after he was found guilty of assaulting DA Councillor, Rano Kayser, during a heated Council brawl back in October 2016. Thus, as far as numbers will be concerned the DA-led coalition will have the numbers that it needs to defeat all the motions going into that meeting. “The Democratic Alliance has tactics, and we know that he is not going to finish his time - Trollip will go. They have these tactics of trying to cling to power,” described Municipal Public Accounts Committee Chairperson, Cllr Yoliswa Yako of the EFF. She also added that she is very much aware that at this point, they don’t have numbers, but what is important is to pass the motions and continue to deal with the issues of the daily running of the municipality. Bobani said: “This is not a coincidence, we see what the DA is doing. They think that they are clever and will win this by playing a dirty game, but tables might shift in that council meeting.” The ANC regional secretary, Themba Xathula said that he was unable to comment at the moment, however, they are still in the process of preparing a statement.   