 Agri Eastern Cape condemns the recent incidents of violence and murder. It is alarming that South Africa has become this lawless country, where innocent citizens are brutally attacked and murdered. Mr Bill Gravett, 63, a farmer in the Sunlands, Addo area was allegedly attacked with an axe before abducting him from his farm during a robbery at on Saturday, 14th April 2018. We are delighted that the suspects have been apprehended. Due to the nature of the farm attack, the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit has taken over the case. The unit also investigates organised crime syndicates, hijackings and gang-related crimes. Sadly, Mr Krause was murdered on Tuesday, 17th April 2018. He farmed in the Peelton area. It is alleged that he was opening a gate +- 2km from his farm. He was about to get back into his vehicle, and was attacked, and murdered. He was found next to his vehicle with a gunshot, and stab wounds. No suspects have been arrested. Mr Doug Stern, has again urged the South African Police Service to do everything possible to bring farm murderers to book after a spate of farm attacks in the country recently. “On behalf of the farmers in the Eastern Cape, we extend our heartfelt condolences to the families and friends of the victims. We appeal to the South African Police Services to mobilise the entire force, and all their available manpower to investigate these atrocious and brutal crimes, to get these perpetrators/murderers prosecuted, convicted, and jailed.” “Our rural communities are vulnerable, and we feel that too little is being done to protect our farming fraternity, as well as our farm workers. Our rural communities across South Africa, cannot just live on their farms, and continuously live in fear for their lives.” We owe it to all South African to live in a crime free society! Furthermore, we want to once again reiterate our plea, and call on the SAPS to immediately establish specialised rural safety units in the rural farming areas. The Honourable Minister Bheki Cele must endeavour to eradicate this scourge of violent crime within rural communities.” 