 After surviving once again the motion of no confidence brought against him by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and other opposition parties, Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, said that the behaviour of the opposition parties is what led to permanent adjournment of Tuesday's Special Council meeting. “When the Speaker of the Council started this debate, he made it very clear that he wanted it to go on without any disruptions like last time. "However, the very people that wanted the motions to be debated and discussed are the ones that continue to bring chaos and disruptions,” Trollip described. Trollip said that it was ironic that the very people responsible for the chaos continue to blame the Speaker. He also commended the Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition for displaying the best behaviour - like they always do at the council, adding that they will not be held at ransom by the opposition parties. Trollip said that after the failed motions, they are now focussing on serving the people of the Metro. Meanwhile, the Regional Chairperson of the United Democratic Movement (UDM), Mongameli Bobani, expressed his disappointments in how the meeting was conducted. “The Speaker left the Council Meeting without any apparent reason and, as the UDM, we are very disappointed. In fact, we take it as if this meeting didn’t happen because we were so disciplined today and wanted to continue the meeting," he said. “ However, the Speaker decided to stop the meeting and leave us there while we were there ones who called the meeting.” Speaking for the African National Congress (ANC), Andile Lungisa said that it was unfortunate that the meeting had to end because of a "partisan speaker". “We must remember that the Speaker is the Speaker of the Council not the Speaker of the DA and cannot be instructed by one political party inside the council chambers," he said. “It is unfortunate that the Speaker doesn’t know the rules of Council and 61 councillors, who called the meeting were left inside by the speaker, administration, municipal manager and the councillors of the DA." Speaking for the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), Zilindile Vena, said: “We are disturbed by what happened because the Speaker must pull the interests of the people not the interests of the DA. “This thing shows that there is instability in our city ...of which it calls for concern. “He must converne a meeting again and start with the item of removing the DA, including himself, and we will make sure that we do everything to ensure the motions of no confidence are tabled.” 