 Held in Nelspruit at the Promenade hotel in Mpumalanga, the Department of Labour is continuing on its quest to keep up to speed, create awareness and educate employers on their rights to the soon to be implemented National Minimum Wage (NMW), specially focusing on the application for exemption to the bill. Speaking to employers from different sectors in the Mpumalanga province, Department of Labour Steven Rathai says the rescheduling of the implementation is currently sitting with parliament to follow its processes especially in responding to the avalanche of oral and written submissions in response to the bill and the new labour law amendments. Rathai says it was imperative for the implementation process to be pushed forward in order for parliament to pass a bill which will be in agreement with everyone and as well avoid a number of court hearings in the future should the government not take into cognisance the comments of stakeholders. Talking on the regulations of the new bill and the soon to be implemented online system for employers to apply for exemption, Kekulu Padi from the Department of Labour Employment Standards says, the new labour regulations will be published soon and employers will have a chance to comment on them. She says that employers will be alerted in due time before the implementation date in order to start registering and applying for exemption on the system. She says should the department find out that an employer who applied for exemption can afford the minimum wage at a later stage after being granted the exemption, the department will investigate the employer and if found guilty the exemption will be withdrawn from the employer with immediate effect. "Under the new law, employers will have to pay their staff a minimum wage of R20 an hour with the exception of sectors such as the farm/forestry, domestic and expanded public works programme workers, that have been given a longer transition period to pay R18, R15 and R11 per hour respectively," described Teboho Thejane, Departmental Spokesperson. "Another briefing session will be held tomorrow in Piet Retief Town Hall, Mkhondo Municipality, 33 Mark Street." More briefing sessions are lined up for Limpopo (Tzaneen, 16 April and Polokwane 17 April), culminating in the Free State province (Bloemfontein, 19 April and Bethlehem 20 April). The briefing sessions will be held from 10:00 -13:00. 