 Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga has applauded the actions of members of Mount Road Cluster Crime Combating Task Team for pursuing a suspect and ensuring his arrest. "It is alleged that on Saturday, at about 16:10, members were engaged in stop and search operations in Louw Street in Gelvandale, Port Elizabeth," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "As the members were busy searching a person suspected to be in possession of drugs, another police vehicle, which was behind their colleagues noticed a person running with a firearm in his hand. "Members chased after the suspect on foot and in a vehicle." She said that the fleeing suspect was seen tossing a firearm over a fence. "The member on foot was run over by a taxi, however in his persistence, he got up and continued pursuing the suspect. "The suspect then turned around and fired at them with a second firearm," Col Naidu added. "The members observed the suspect handing over the firearm to two other males, who joined him while running." She said that the 18-year-old youth was arrested. "Back up vehicles continued chasing the other two suspects, who split up. One person was found at a house in Nyala Street but no firearm was found in his possession. A 7.65 pistol was found in a yard in Louw Street in Gelvandale." She said that the driver of the taxi was also apprehended and taken to the police station. "A case of reckless and/or negligent driving is opened," Col Naidu said. "The injured Warrant Officer sustained injuries to his face, fingers and foot. After effecting the arrest, he was taken to hospital for treatment." The 18-year-old suspect will be detained on charges of illegal possession of a firearm and attempted murder. "The attacks on police members can never be justified and we will do everything in our power to ensure that perpetrators are arrested and brought to book. The injured police officer is commended for his bravery and determination in ensuring the arrest of the suspect and we wish him a speedy recovery. Our police members are mandated to protect the people in the Northern areas and such attacks will not deter us from fulfilling this task," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. 