 The constant support and commitment to fight crime within the Nelson Mandela Bay area was once again proven when Flying Squad members arrested two suspects, aged 26 and 27 years old, on charges of pointing of firearm, illegal possession of firearm and ammunition and possession of suspected stolen property. "The arrest came after WO Blundin, WO Msindwana and Cst Ntamo responded to a complaint of robbery from a person that happened on 28 April 2018 at approximately 08:25 in Zwide area," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse van Rensburg. "It was alleged that the suspects fled in a white Opel Corsa, shortly after the vehicle was circulated by radio control, the members spotted it in Siwise Street, New Brighton." She said that it appeared as if the suspects were about to rob a spaza shop. Officers tactically approached the vehicle from behind and blocked the vehicle off from going forward. The suspects were verbally commanded to get out of the vehicle, but suspects refused to. They allegedly then tried to bump WO Blundin and Cst Ntamo in an attempt to get away. "The suspects than reversed their vehicle and WO Blundin and Cst Ntamo ran on foot after the vehicle until the driver lost control and bumped into a wall in Siwise Street," said Capt van Rensburg. "One of the suspects then got out of the vehicle and pointed the members with a firearm. "One of the members managed to grab his hand and force the firearm out of his hand. The firearm dropped to the ground and the suspect was arrested and the passenger was also apprehended." Upon searching the vehicle, members recovered seven cellphones, clothing and a firearm, which serial number was filled off with ammunition. "The complainants positively identified their property that was found in possession of the suspects. Both suspects will appear in court on charges of possession of suspected stolen property, illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition and pointing of a firearm," she said. "Daily our members come face to face with criminals and put their lives in danger, but this is because our members are committed to serve our community and to keep them safe."  