 The National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure (NATJOINTS), comprising of various government departments and law enforcement agencies, has put security measures in place ahead of the national general strike by the South African Federation of Trade Unions (SAFTU) on Wednesday. "Since this morning [Tuesday], flyers have been distributed by persons believed to have been wearing branded SAFTU regalia at taxi ranks and other public places," said police spokesperson, Brigadier Vishnu Naidoo. "South Africa's economic hubs of Gauteng, Western Cape and KwaZulu-Natal are expected to be the centre of protest actions when thousands of South African Federation of Trade Union members are expected to down tools and embark on the said nation-wide strike." Brigadier Naidoo said that law enforcement agencies nationally have been advised of their roles and responsibilities particularly in respect of crowd and traffic management on Wednesday. "Operational plans have been developed under the auspices of the various Provincial Joint Operational and Intelligence Structures in anticipation of people descending on identified areas. "The mandate of the SAPS demands of us to lead the process of securing gatherings and to allow all South Africans to exercise their democratic right to protest, picket, participate in a strike action without any fear of intimidation or any other forms of criminality," he added. "Section 205 ( 3 ) of the Constitution of the Republic of South Africa directs that the South African Police Service prevent, combat and investigate crime, maintain public order, protect and secure the inhabitants of the Republic and their property, and uphold the constitution and enforce the law. "The South African Police Service will continue to execute this mandate." Brigadier Naidoo said that the National Joint Operational and Intelligence Structure appeals to those, who will be participating in the strike, to respect the rights of those, who choose not be participate in such actions and to refrain from intimidation or any other form of criminal behaviour. "Those who will participate must do so within the confines of the law and in a responsible manner. Those disguising themselves as protesters but are joining only to cause mayhem and commit crime, will face arrest and prosecution." 