 The Provincial Commissioner of Eastern Cape, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, commended members of PE Flying Squad for their excellent efforts in effecting the arrests of three alleged armed robbery suspects on the N2 freeway on Friday. "It is alleged that the suspects robbed a jewellery store  in George in the morning and their getaway vehicle was seen heading towards the N2 PE bound," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "The information was immediately relayed on all police channels and members of PE Flying Squad patrolled the N2 in search of the suspected vehicle." At about 13:00 , the white Mercedes Benz was seen driving at high speed past the Van Stadens Bridge. "A chase then ensued and the vehicle was recklessly driving between traffic. As it neared the Cape Road- N2 off ramp, the vehicle was forced to slow down due to heavy traffic. "Police managed to force the vehicle onto the side of the freeway," he added. "Three suspects were arrested. A large amount of jewellery which included gold chains, rings, platinum jewellery and cell phones was found inside the vehicle. "A 9mm firearm and 15 rounds of ammunition was also seized. The vehicle and firearm belongs to the driver of the vehicle. The value of the jewellery and cellphones is not yet known." The suspects, aged 31, 34 and 47 year old, is detained on charges of possession of suspected stolen property, police will be probing the possible link to the business robbery in George. "Suspects will appear in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Monday." Lt Gen Ntshinga added that "our  Back to Basics approach to policing which includes enhanced  police visibility of all our operational resources  is crucial in ensuring that criminals do not evade arrest. "Excellent communication and swift reaction to information is guaranteed to yield positive results like the outstanding arrest of the three suspects.  Actions such as this most certainly uplifts the public’s perception that the police are doing everything in their power to ensure  a safe and securement environment." 