 The Patriotic Alliance's (PA) Marlon Daniels on Wednesday explained why they decided to stand with the Democratic Alliance (DA) led coalition in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality saying that they will not be dictated to by Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) leader, Julius Malema. Daniels, who previously claimed that Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, cannot be trusted because "the man is a liar", surprised many when his party announced that they would defend Trollip in a motion of no confidence brought against him by Nelson Mandela Bay oppposition parties. The motion and others are now set to be debated on Tuesday following disruptions that saw a Special Council Meeting being adjourned on the 29th of March. “The matter of me re-joining the coalition is a matter of principle. The EFF didn’t have the right reasons to table the motion of no confidence against Athol Trollip - the only reason they have is because he is white and that is mostly influenced by Julius Malema," described Daniels to RNEWS. He  further said that when he once tabled a motion against Trollip in November last year, the EFF didn’t support his motion, which is another reason why the PA, in turn, must also not support the EFF motion. Malema in February announced in Parliament that the EFF would get rid of Trollip as punishment to the DA for not supporting the EFF's controversial motion for land expropriation without compensation. Daniels said that Malema made that announcement without engaging local Councillors in Nelson Mandela Bay, which he said was disrespectful on so many levels because Malema lives in Johannesburg and is not-well informed on what goes on in the Metro. Ahead of the adjourned Special Council Meeting, Trollip announced that in exchange of the PA's crucial vote, Daniels will soon occupy the position of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC for Transport, which is currently occupied by the DA's Rano Kayser, as well as the Deputy Executive Mayor position, which was once occupied by the UDM's Mongameli Bobani before it was abolished. Speaking to RNEWS, Kayser said that he volunteered for his position to be taken by Daniels for the benefit the organization and in the interest of the City and its people. “I joined the organization voluntarily, so I am led by the organization. For now, the organization wants my main focus to be to get involved in the matters affecting the Northern Areas,” Kayser said. Daniels told RNEWS that his relationship with the black caucus (the opposition parties) has not changed despite the PA electing to side with the DA-led coalition. “I do not deny having meetings with the black caucus previously, but I did not like how the African National Congress (ANC) was undermining the small parties," he said. However, the ANC through its Head of Elections, Fikile Mbalula, last week told a press conference that the ANC is not interested in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral position and was not responsible for the chaos witnessed at the meeting. DA leader, Mmusi Maimane, who was also in the Bay for the crucial vote, said that the chaos was a result of the opposition seeing that they do not have the numbers to win the motion against Trollip. Malema said that even if they failed to remove Trollip, they would keep trying until they succeed. “I can tell you now that Trollip will not finish his term as executive mayor of this metro,” Malema said. 