 The expertise of the Provincial Organised Crime Investigation Unit in Port Elizabeth, has been roped in to assist with an investigation relating to a house robbery that took place on two farms in the Sunlands area of Addo on Saturday evening. "It is alleged that a 63-year-old man went outside to feed his horses and upon entering his home, he was attacked by about three unknown males," said police spokesperson, Captain Gerda Swart. "The suspects assaulted him with an axe and demanded the keys to his safe. "The suspects took three firearms, electronic equipment and forced the complainant into his white Isuzu LDV and they drove to a neighbouring farm." There the suspects allegedly ordered the complainant to open the neighbour’s house and they ransacked the neighbour’s house also. Captain Swart said that the neighbour's family was out of town at the time and the complainant was looking after their premises. "Here the suspects took the safe, which also contained firearms, and they drove off to a residence, believed to be somewhere in Motherwell, with the complainant. "The complainant was tied up and kept in a room for the duration of the night," she described. "Early on Sunday morning, the suspects took the complainants credit cards and used it at a shopping centre in Port Elizabeth. "The suspects then returned home and later drove the complainant to a service station near Mjoli Square, Kwazakele, Port Elizabeth where they released the victim and returned his LDV bakkie." Capt Swart said that the complainant managed to drive back to his farm and alerted the local police at about 15:30 on Sunday. "Detectives were summoned to the scene and are currently following up on all possible leads." She said that police are investigating two cases of house robbery and kidnapping and more charges may be added at a later stage. "The complainant was taken to a hospital where he was admitted with head and arm injuries. "Anyone with information that could lead to the arrest of the suspects is urged to contact the investigating officer, Detective Warrant Officer JP Lourens on 071 352 4706," Capt Swart added. "The SAPS wants to encourage the community to work with the SAPS in reducing crime and they appeal to the community to provide valuable information that will lead to the arrest of those involved in crime. "Reject and report all stolen property to the SAPS. Let us share information and support each other in the fight against crime. Crime Stop 08600 10111 or Crime Line SMS 32211." 