 The Business Women’s Association Port Elizabeth branch last week Friday hosted 100 Matric girls from across the city in their annual Matric Workshop held at Linkside High School, in Port Elizabeth. The girls in attendance from a range of secondary schools across the city were treated to an agenda which was jam packed with entertaining and informative speakers. Girls were also treated to a goodie bag filled with branded items from sponsoring organisations – everything from stationery, to earphones, to body butter and lip balm. Preparing for the future – ‘I can and I will – watch me’ The programme, entitled ‘I can and I will – watch me’ was designed to ease the transition that these young women face as they leave formal education and go into tertiary education and employment. Experts in several fields had the audience in the palms of their hands and discussed a variety of topics which are relevant to today’s youth. Top speakers and a jam-packed agenda The young ladies were hosted by the ever-charismatic MC – Lucia Mtshake – the newly appointed BWA Vice-Chair and also a teacher at Alexander Road High. Many giggles were shared throughout the day as Lucia guided these young women through the programme, making sure they were never bored. Her clapping ‘1-2-3 1-2-3 DAB’ move kept the ladies awake and even the teachers and facilitators who were present joined in with this little piece of fun. ‘We gots things to do!’ Judith Joao – a university student from Limpopo, has chosen The Nelson Mandela University to be her Alma Mata. She stressed how the transition from secondary to tertiary education is a daunting one, as there are no longer teachers "to make sure you’ve done your homework’ and that her and her fellow students regularly use the catchy term ‘we gots things to do!" Clarissa Ah Goo and Faren van Wyk of BLC Attorneys then followed with an eye-popping talk on the do’s and don’ts of social media – including everything from selfies to sexting and the law pertaining to this very important and current topic. In light of recent events in the media, this was a key area which the ladies needed to heed. The ever-charismatic Hlubi Hewitt-Coleman of Spin Queen enthralled the audience with her adventures in entrepreneurship and urged the girls to align themselves with positive people and be passionate about whatever it is they do – because, as she said "you can be anything you want to be". As many of these young women will enter the workplace over the next 3-5 years, learning how to conduct oneself in an interview is of paramount importance. The ever-accomplished Nikky Hynch of MPC Recruitment guided the ladies through preparation, expectations and conduct before, during and after an interview. Another topic which is becoming more and more necessary to discuss is the safety of the women in our country. Everything from rape, to assault, and robbery are top of mind for South Africans in the 21st century. Bernadette Nel-Naude, who has worked for Atlas Security for more than a decade, is often at the frontline of safety and security matters in our city. She gave the girls excellent advice on how to safeguard themselves and what to do in a situation when they are in danger. Vodacom treated the ladies to an introduction to their brand new learning platform – Vodacom e-school. The programme is designed as an app where any learners from grades 4-12 are able to access everything from lesson work, to extra work, tutorials and mock tests and exams. Many of the ladies expressed their enthusiasm at being able to utilise this valuable tool to assist them in passing their exams. The new chairperson of BWA, Heather Dutton said, "We are incredibly proud of this initiative and absolutely love hosting the Grade 12 Workshop every year. "The knowledge that the girls depart with is paramount & we encourage them to share it with their peers. We are very grateful to our partnering sponsor, Global Load Control, for their generous contribution – without which this would not have been possible." 