 The Provincial SAPS Commissioner for the Eastern Cape, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, has hailed the sentencing of yet another two gang members in Port Elizabeth. On Wednesday, Courtney Matroos (25) and Aldine Jacobs (24) were sentenced in the Port Elizabeth Regional Court to an effective 16 years imprisonment each for attempted murder, possession of firearm and possession of ammunition. According to police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg, on count 1, they were sentenced to 12 years imprisonment; count 2 - possession of an illegal firearm, seven years imprisonment; and count 3 possession of ammunition - 18 months’ imprisonment. "Three years of count 2 will run concurrent with count 1 and count 3 will run concurrent with Count 2," she added. "The court found that they are guilty of attempted murder in terms of common purpose." On 20th November 2016, the victim (36 years old) was walking with the two accused when he was shot at around 03:00 in the morning. "Police responded and found the victim in the middle of the road in Neave Street, Schauderville, with gunshot wounds to the back and his head," Capt van Rensburg described. "The victim was taken to Livingstone hospital for treatment. The accused were known to him. "During the investigation, members of the Provincial Gang Investigation Unit recovered a firearm that was sent to ballistics for testing which resulted in it being positively linked to the incident in Neave Street." She said that both accused were arrested during December 2016, and remained in custody until the finalisation of the case. Due to expert testimony and thorough investigation, the case was finalised within three days of trial. "Within this week, four gang affiliates received lengthy sentences for their heinous actions. This is a stern warning to criminals that playtime is over and through integrated partnerships with the prosecuting authority and the SAPS, we will ensure that the Northern areas of Port Elizabeth is restored once again to the law abiding citizens," added Lt Gen Ntshinga. 