 The Nelson Mandela Metro and the Sarah Baartman District emerged as the best performing education districts in the Eastern Cape, both achieving above 70% in their matric pass rates according to Eastern Cape MEC for Education, Mandla Makupula. Nelson Mandela Metro achieved a 72,59% pass rate while the Sarah Baartman District achieved a 71% pass. The bulk of the education districts are sitting at between 60 and 70% - the two worst performing education districts were in the Amathole region and scored below 57%. Makupula hosted the media on Friday morning at the Education Leadership Institute, in Stirling, East London, ahead of a Best Performers' Awards Ceremony & Gala Dinner arranged for the best performing students from the province, which was would take place at the International Convetion Centre (ICC), Esplanade, in Quigney, East London, later on the same day. Despite a 2.5% improvement from the 2016 Matric results, the Eastern Cape achieved a 65.8% pass rate. With progressed learners, the Eastern Cape achieved a 65% pass rate - or a 5.7% improvement from 2016, the second largest improvement in the country. Nearly  84 000 full time and 21 789 part-time candidates - totalling 105 757 candidates, registered for the 2017 Grade 12 NSC examinations in the Eastern Cape. Makupula said that the pass rate is quiet a signficant achievement for the province, which has over the years always came last. He elaborated that despite being at the bottom out of all the provinces, the province is the second most improved nationally after the KwaZulu Natal. MEC Makupula said the province has been on an upward trajectory as there was a 4% increase for Bachelors University entrance while distinctions increased by 0,2 % as compared to the previous year. The Department also said that one school obtained 0% pass rate and that 14 of the 15 learners that wrote were found with scripts. An investigation by the Examinations Irregularity Committee has been launched.  Watch MEC Makupula addressing the media below:  