 Three suspects are expected in court on Monday after they were arrested over the weekend for the illegal possession of unlicensed firearms and dealing in dagga in the Motherwell Cluster. "The role that fire arms and drugs play in the commission of serious crimes remains the focus areas of police in this cluster," said police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. He said that in the first incident, just after 20:00, Kwazakele police members on patrol were stopped by persons claiming they were robbed of their laptop and money by two suspects in Daku Road, close to Spar. "They pointed towards the two suspects that were running away and the members managed to arrest a 28-year-old suspect," Captain Beetge said. "In his possession a 7.65 pistol with four rounds ammunition was found." The suspect has been charged with illegal possession of unlicensed firearm and armed robbery. "Shortly afterwards, at about 20:30, members of Motherwell Cluster Operational Command Centre spotted two suspicious persons walking in Mission Road, in Kwadwesi Extention. "On approaching them, the suspects ran away and dropped a 9mm pistol with two rounds ammunition. Unfortunately the suspects evaded arrest," he described. Captain Beetge further said that police in Ikamvelihle were notified at about 21:00 of a suspect in Manasisa Street randomly firing a firearm. "On investigating, they found a 19-year-old male in possession of a 9mm pistol in an argument with his father. "The firearm belongs to the father," he said. "The 19-year-old suspect was arrested on charges of unlicensed possession of a firearm and discharging of a firearm in an urban area." He said that the 50-year-old father also faces charges of failure to safeguard a firearm and allowing an unlicensed person to be in possession of a firearm, pending further investigation. "Just after 01:00 this morning, members of Motherwell Cluster Operational Command Centre were following up information about a suspect selling dagga at Ncibane Tavern in Gotyiba Street, NU11 in Motherwell," Captain Beetge added. "They found a 31-year-old female suspect in possession of 578 grams and 105 bompies dagga. She was arrested and charged with dealing in dagga." The three suspects will be appearing for their respective charges at the respective Magistrates Courts in New Brighton and Motherwell on Monday. 