 Port Elizabeth residents on Wednesday woke up to busy and sometimes congested roads again as children, teachers and parents rose up bright and early for the opening of local schools for the 2018 academic year. Despite a somewhat cloudy and chilly morning, at several schools visited by RNEWS, the excitement was palpable as everyone shared a common optimism about the new school year. Among the thousands of children that lined up at school gates, were many, who will be attending school for the first time after being promoted to Grade one from the various crèches and day care centres dotted around the Bay. Several parents were visibly emotional as they sent their young children off to school for the first time.  “It’s always so emotional, I have a little boy in Grade one. It’s the start of their school careers and the start of their ‘professional’ life going forward, so it’s very exciting and very emotional,” said Allison Gerber. Another parent, Liska van Royen, said; “It’s very nerve-wracking having him go to school, and I feel that he’s not a baby anymore.” “It’s great, I love it. The thing I love most is that my girl didn’t cry at all. She’s happy and knows the school and the teachers already. And seeing her in that tiny uniform is one of those great things; I even took photos for her first day,” said Lillian Zvenyika. There were also parents, who are sending their children off to high school for the last time as they prepare for their Matric exams later this year. “We’re very happy being back, it’s been a fantastic holiday. My child is in Matric for the first time which I think is as exciting and daunting as when they were in Grade one. “But I know that they will get the right grounding for the future,” said Lana Krige. The Eastern Cape and the country recorded an improved Matric pass rate for 2017, allowing a lot more students to be able enter colleges and universities. With this in mind, there are high hopes for the Matric students of 2018 to meet the same or even increase the pass rate. Caption: Nothukela Mlaba dropping her daughter Noluthando off to school for the first time. Both very excited about the year ahead. 