 Police patrols in the Nelson Mandela Bay Metro paid off when officers arrested a robbery suspect and confiscated a firearm while also recovering suspected stolen property. According to police information, on Thursday, a Tops Liquor Store in Apsen Heights, in Betheldorp, Port Elizabeth, was robbed by five armed men. The men allegedly threatened the staff and a few customers, whom they found inside the store. They had apparently overpowered the security guard. “All the victims, including the customers, were pushed into the walk-in refrigerator,” said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. The suspects that took an undisclosed amount of money, three cell phones and some liquor before making their escape in a white Corsa bakkie. “Immediately after the incident, the vehicle registration number was circulated on all police channels. The vehicle was spotted by members of Motherwell Operational Command Centre,” she said. “A hunt followed into Perseverance where the accused hastily abandoned the vehicle and fled in different directions. One person was arrested hiding in a shack in Kani Street, Kwazakele. “A 9mm firearm and a bag of money were recovered from the house. The Corsa bakkie (not reported stolen) was seized by police.” Col Naidu said that the man, who is about 24-years-old, was detained at Kwazakele police station on charges of illegal possession of a firearm, illegal possession of ammunition and possession of a suspected stolen property. “Further investigation will be followed to establish the suspect’s alleged involvement in the robbery at the liquor store.” The Cluster Commander for Motherwell Cluster, Maj Gen Dawie Rabie, commended the members for their reaction and apprehension of the suspect and seizure of the firearm and money. “We will not allow criminals to upper hand and we will ensure that through our investigations that these criminals are brought before court and handed down the sentence they deserve. We are calling on the communities to work with the SAPS and to report any suspicious behaviour of persons in their areas,” added Maj Gen Rabie.  