 Opposition parties in the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality have accused the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) of being in bed with the Democratic Alliance (DA) after the party's Nomampondomise Yoliswa Yako emerged as the new Municipal Public Accounts Committee (MPAC) Chairperson at the Metro's first full Council meeting of 2018, which was held on Thursday. Yako was elected unopposed by the EFF and the DA coalition after opposition parties that include the Patriotic Alliance (PA), the African National Congress (ANC) and the United Democratic Movement (UDM) abstained from voting. The parties said that the EFF was being rewarded for their crucial vote that saved Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, from being removed after a motion of no confidence had been brought against him by the PA's Marlon Daniels at the last Council meeting in November. After that meeting, Daniels alleged that the EFF had voted with the DA because they had been promised the MPAC chairperson position - an allegation, which was denied by the EFF. The MPAC Chairperson position was occupied by the DA's Cllr Lance Grootboom, was now heads the Public Health portfolio, which had been vacant after the firing of the UDM's Mongameli Bobani and Daniels after him following a Mayoral Committee reshuffle in December. Speaking to RNEWS, Councillor Daniels it was now obvious that the EFF had been rewarded for protecting Trollip. “It is unfortunate that logic doesn’t prevail when it comes to the residents of this Metro and it is also unfortunate that the DA, who are a minority party and a minority government that didn’t win outright in the elections, are relying on other parties to support them," he said. “The sad thing is that this appointment of this MPAC chair was offered last year as soon as they saved him from being removed as Mayor.” Daniels said that the EFF contacted the opposition parties and asked them to support their candidate. “They are fooling their consituances and the broader public out there when they say that they are not in coalition with the DA while they are. They wanted the black caucus to support them, so that it doesn’t look obvious in the public out there and, as a black caucus, we took a decision that we are not going to support that coalition, hence we abstained to expose them for their gift that they have inherited from Trollip for retaining him as the executive mayor," he described. “The fact that it was the DA that voted with the EFF blew the cover and let the cat out of the bag once more that even though they are not technically in coalition by not signing in a coalition agreement, but actions speaks louder than words." Councillor Yako denied allegations receiving the position as a gift for protecting Trollip. “This can’t be an arrangement based on how we voted previously because we focus on what the issues are politically. The accusations are also coming from politicians, who are not getting the attention they need and therefore will divert any kind of progress towards it being an arrangement,” she said. EFF national spokesperson, Dr Mbuyiseni Ndlozi, said that the party by accepting the position are giving warning shots that they are ready to govern in South Africa while ensuring that the ANC is kept out of power. “What is essential for us is to keep the resources of the people outside the hands of the ANC, which has been looting from the people and corrupting them for the last 24 years," Ndlozi said. “We are going to vote with opposition parties and that is what we have been doing, to keep the national state of the ANC that has been looting public resources in the last 23-years." 