 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape held an ordinary Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) meeting on Sunday and Monday ahead of its PEC Lekgotla that will be held on the 4th – 5th February. Among the discussions was the relationship between the new ANC PEC and party deployees in the Eastern Cape Provincial Government as at municipal level as well as the new party's re-invigorated fight against corruption. "The PEC noted the deteriorating relations between the ANC leadership in the Province and the ANC deployees in the Provincial Government," said Judy Mpetsheni, ANC Eastern Cape Media & Liaison Officer. Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane leads the ANC in the Eastern Cape after he defeated former ANC Eastern Cape Chairperson and current Premier, Phumulo Masualle, at the 8th Provincial Conference that was held at the end of September. The result was the so-called two centres of power in the province. "The PEC has a responsibility to oversee the work of the ANC in government, in order to ensure that we implement our manifesto commitments and various resolutions," said Mpetsheni.\ She said that the ANC was elected by an overwhelming majority of the people of the Eastern Cape in 2014, and as such, needs to work closely with its deployees in Government in order to implement the party's resolutions and commitments, and ensure that they use the state as a tool to transform the lives and conditions of the people of the province. "As such, the PEC has thus resolved to reconfigure the Eastern Cape Provincial Government in order to enhance the capacity of our Provincial Government to effectively implement ANC commitments and resolutions," Mpetsheni added. "The meeting directed the PEC Officials to meet with the National Officials as part of the process of implementing the decision." Eastern Cape municipalities She said that the meeting noted the continued challenges facing certain municipalities in the Province, especially on the lack of political stability. "The PEC will exercise direct oversight over the ANC Caucuses in identified hotspot municipalities namely, Port St Johns, King Sabata Dalindyebo, Kouga, Makana, Enoch Mgijima, Walter Sisulu, Senqu, Buffalo City Metro, Nelson Mandela Metro, and the local municipalities within the Amathole District," described Mpetsheni. "Given the enormity of the problems in some of the municipalities, the PEC has further resolved to review the deployment in Enoch Mgijima, Port St Johns, Mnquma, and Walter Sisulu municipalities. "The PEC reaffirms its position that we do not support the relocation of Matatiele to the Province of KwaZulu Natal. The ANC will meaningfully participate in the public hearings scheduled which will be conducted by the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature." She said that the ANC will continue to work closely with and monitor the performance of Provincial and Local Government on the implementation of the manifesto priorities. Fight against corruption Mpetsheni  added that the meeting reaffirmed the ANC’s commitment to intensify its fight against corruption, both in the public and private sector. "The PEC welcomed the establishment of the commission on state capture, which has been a standing resolution of the ANC. The meeting also welcomed and repeated the sentiments expressed by the ANC president Cde Cyril Ramaphosa, who stated that where there are clear incidents of wrong-doing, state institutions meant to fight corruption should act and not wait for the conclusion of the work of the commission," she described. "As such, the PEC welcomes the actions taken by the Hawks in Free State in relation to the Estina Dairy Project investigation, as well as the arrests of some officials in Alfred Nzo District Municipality. The work of these state institutions must be reinforced by ANC internal processes, such as the integrity commission and disciplinary committees with urgency." Mpetsheni added that the PEC also reaffirmed its resolution on the implementation of the recommendations in the Public Protector’s report in relation to the Nelson Mandela funeral. "The PEC resolved that those who wish to take the findings on review should do it in their personal capacity and not make use of public or state funds." NEC decision on the future of President Zuma The PEC affirmed the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC) decision that national officials must continue engaging on the future of the State President – "this should take into cognisance the sentiments raised by the South African Society and the impact of his continued stay in office has in so far as serving the people of South Africa is concerned". Regional Conferences and Regional General Councils Five regions namely Dr W.B Rubusana, Chris Hani, OR Tambo, Joe Gqabi and Sarah Baartman are all due for their Regional Conferences this year. As per the NEC decision all conferences must be held by end of June 2018. "The Provincial Working Committee Report therefore outlined the roadmap towards these Regional Conferences and the Regional General Councils to fill vacancies in the other regions," said Mpetsheni. "The Regional Conferences and Regional General Councils shall sit between 11th May and 24th June 2018. "After deliberating upon the guidelines on the administrative aspects of the conference preparations, the PEC resolved that the PEC and REC shall jointly oversee the Biennial Branch General Meetings towards the regional conferences particularly in the identified branches that were faced by challenges in the previous set of BGMs." 