 Buffalo City Municipality Executive Mayor, Xola Pakati, has declared the Metro ready to host one of the biggest events on its calendar this weekend. The City will be hosting the African Nation Congress' (ANC) January 8th statement rally at three stadiums on Saturday, with the main event being held at the Buffalo City Stadium in Arcadia. According to Pakati, the City has beefed its resources at the beachfront including lifeguards and cleaning staff as part of its festive season operations. "These include the integrated joint operation with members of the East London/Mdantsane cluster, Provincial & Local Traffic, the Buffalo City Municipality Law Enforcement, Environmental Health & Fire Safety in terms of the pillars of safer festive season back to basic, which is meant to cordon and search to check for illicit drugs, illegal fire arms, stolen vehicles and goods," the Metro said. "This operation kicked off on Monday 8 January at North End - California Night Club, Belgravia Hotel, business premises, Quigney - Curry Court and Moore Street where 12 premises were searched,38 vehicles and 102 people. "Three suspects were arrested for possession of drugs and one for housebreaking and trespassing. Traffic fines issued to value of R13 500 and four vehicles unroadworthy impounded by the Buffalo City Municipality Traffic Department." It said that six undocumented persons were also arrested and detained at East London Police Station and the police force are waiting for Immigration to verify their documents. "Also found in some of the condemned properties in Quigney is 19 knives, a panga, dagga plants, two remote controls, a packet of tik, 20 females who are suspected to be involved in prostitution. "The operations also included the Cambridge SAPS Cluster Roadblock on Tuesday at Amalinda N2, where 181 motor vehicles were stopped, 56 summonses issued to the value of R23 100 and three men were arrested for being in possession of stolen goods and an undisclosed amount of money," the Metro said. "Various streets around the venues will be closed on Saturday in order to manage the traffic, these streets include Brill Street at Tilney Street, Brill Street at Mill Street, Recreation Road at Commercial Road, Deyer Street, Recreation Road at Commercial Road, Recreation Road at Lambert Road. These operations are conducted to insure safety in the City." Pakati added that the Metro has ticked all the boxes and is ready to deliver an incident free event. 