 As promised, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality delivered on one of the developmental pillars of the current coalition government, of creating a safe City for all. "We can confirm that the City delivered zero incident New Year celebrations," the Metro said in a statement on Monday. "A good coordination between the City's directorates made sure that the City not only delivers on a promise made, but delivers the best Summer Season ever." It said that working under the project management of the Directorate of Sport and Recreation, municipal officials from different directorates went an extra mile to make sure the City is safe, clean and offer the best family orientated summer season entertainment. "Through Safety and Security Directorate, Metro Police, Traffic Services and Security services the city invested hours of planning and execution to make sure that each and everyone is safe. This success would not have been achieved without good working relations with the SAPS. "Waste Management under Public Health Directorate made sure that all our beaches are cleaned 24/7 while dedicated teams focused on business district areas across the City including areas like Korsten," the municipality added. "In all public holidays refuse collection continued as normal. "Due to influx of thousands of visitors the City anticipated that the Infrastructure would be under pressure." Dedicated teams from Water, Sanitation and Electricity subdirectorates were all out through out the Summer Season to make sure that there was minimal interruption of services. "The investment that was put in by renovating facilities in all our beaches paid off as visitors experienced world class experience. "Commitment of life guards on duty was another key element as some were forced to work until early hours today in beaches like Hobie Beach to make sure that lives were saved," the municipality also described. "However, of great importance, the good working relations and cooperation between the City and the people of Nelson Mandela Bay was a WINNER. "The people of Nelson Mandela Bay are the true ambassadors of this City. "As the City expects people to again flock to our beaches to celebrate the ushering in of the New Year, we call upon everyone to do it responsibly." Read the full new year weekend stats below: SUMMER SEASON STATISTICS by Metro Police Chief Yolanda Faro January 2, 2018 Traffic Violations: 83 x No Driving Licence 48 x Unlicenced motor vehicles 2 x Defective lamps 37 x Permiting unlicenced drivers 28 x Cellphone in hand while driving 24 x Stop causing obstruction 07 x No PrDP 20 x Overloads of passengers 01 x Door open while driving 12 x Park in disabled parking 26 x Park on sidewalk 12 x Disregard red Traffic Light 02 x Learner driver no supervision 14 x Unroadworthy motor vehicle 08 x No number plate 06 x Permit driver without PrDP 01 x Discontinue notice 01 x No overtaking 03 x Fail to turn on headlamp after dark 10 x Unlawful parking 01 x Park at bus stop 13 x Disregard stop sign 03 x Disregard no entry sign 01 x Fail to stop at signal of officer 02 x Not wearing safety belt 02 x Speeding offences 02 x Damaged tyre 01 x Faulty park brake 01 x No operating licence   Accidents attended: 04   Crime Prevention at following events: 1 × Ebubeleni Music Festival 1 x Internatiinal cricket   New Year Eve Patrols: Summerstrand and Wells Estate Willow Dam party   Confiscations: 2 x Illegal Number Plates 2 x Dangerous Weapons   Alcohol decanted: 2 x 750ml Whisky 53 x 330ml Smirnoff Spin 17 x 330ml Brutal Fruit 0.5L Brandy 21 x 340 ml Beer 5L x Wine 2 x 750ml Beer 1 x 340ml Hunters Dry   Bylaws: Open fires: 31 extinguished along beach area   Noise pollution: 1 x Taxi at Shark Rock Pier   Missing Children: 4 x Missing Children and all reunited with families.   Illegal Traders: 36 x Illegal traders   Accidents attended: 4 x Accidents   Shotspotter Response: 6 x Shot Spotter incidents, 2 deceased, 2 injured, 1 no injury, 1 negative.   Vagrants removed: 27 x Vagrants removed   Alcohol outlet compliance: Beershack, White Tiger and Cubana.  Closed at 02.00am due to failure to produce extension letter.   Attacks on cyclist: None reported during  Metro Police patrol hour of 05:00- 06h00   Arrests: 1 x Dagga 1 x Housebreaking 4 x Drunk driving NB: All this work has been done in close cooperation and team work with SAPS and all other Safety and Security agencies.       