 The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Western Cape said that it welcomes the resignation of the City of Cape Town City Manager, Achmat Ebrahim. "It is the right thing to do in the context of the various investigations related to his, the Mayor and other senior officials’ conduct. "We note too, that Mr Achmat remains committed to providing evidence to these investigations and trust that he will fulfill this commitment without fear or favour in the interest of the people of Cape Town," described Bonginkosi Madikizela - DA Western Cape Leader. "It is however, surprising and regrettable that by his own admission Mr Ebrahim was directly requested by Mayor Patricia De Lille not to disclose the fact that he had resigned on Friday. "This means that a material fact relating to the City was deliberately withheld by Mayor De Lille at the time that the DA Federal Executive was deliberating on her matter." Madikizela added that this forced material omission does not reflect well on the Mayor’s conduct and she should account for this - both to the DA and to the residents of the City. "The DA Western Cape leadership will monitor the developments in the City of Cape Town closely to ensure that the interests of the residents are prioritised." Resignation In his resignation letter, Mr Ebrahim made it clear that he is able to quite easily defend the allegations made against him in the Bowman Gilfillan Inc report, said de Lille. "He further stated that, in terms of the ongoing investigations, he would furnish my office with copies of all the evidence files as they pertain to his involvement in these allegations which have already been handed to Bowman Gilfillan Inc and which clearly show that the allegations against him are baseless. "After almost 40 years of dedicated and loyal service with an unblemished record, he stated in his letter that his obvious primary consideration at this stage of his life was that of his personal and his family’s wellbeing," the Mayor added. "Mr Ebrahim expressed his thanks for the excellent leadership and political guidance stating it was a tremendous honour for him to serve with me as the Executive Mayor. "He also paid tribute to all of the many excellent staff in the City who contributed to make Cape Town the well-run and beautiful city that it is." De Lille said that Ebrahim has an untarnished and remarkable track record of nearly 40 years as a public servant, most recently having served as the City Manager for more than 12 years during the past three terms of office. "Ebrahim is highly respected in the Muslim community. He has a good family name and his family is filled with respected professionals. "He started his career as a public servant in the City in 1977 as a lowest level clerk," the Mayor said. "In addition to his formal qualifications and nearly four decades of experience in local government administration, he served more than 26 years at the senior level." She said that he was employed at the Executive Management level for more than 20 years with responsibilities for various portfolios since 1997. "Ebrahim has an impeccable and proven track record and, for the period during which he had served as City Manager, the City earned numerous achievements and accolades including unqualified and clean audits. "He has been instrumental in leading the City administration to be the best in the country," de Lille said. "His resignation is indeed a great loss to the City of Cape Town and its residents. "I have come to know and respect Mr Ebrahim as a principled, hardworking public servant. His experience has been invaluable. It was an honour for me to work with him as a like-minded individual who always saw the need to act with urgency and in the best interests of the residents of our city. "I wish Mr Ebrahim well for the future and thank him for his commitment and outstanding service to the people of Cape Town. "I also thank his family for their constant support of Mr Ebrahim and the sacrifices they made over many years to ensure that he performed his duties with distinction." 