 In support of the National Trio Crimes Action Plan formulated by SAPS management in 2017, unceasing efforts to curb the scourge of trio crimes is paying dividends with the arrest of 1 135 suspects over the past week, Eastern Cape police said.  "Immediate reaction by Port Elizabeth K9 members to a complaint of an alleged break in at a bank in Govan Mbeki Avenue, Port Elizabeth resulted in the arrest of a 23-year-old suspect within an hour after the incident was reported," said police spokesperson, Col Sibongile Soci. "It is alleged that at about 23:00 on 3 January, police were alerted by the bank’s security that there is movement at the bank and the suspect could be seen on CCTV cameras. "The front window was smashed and a computer monitor was snatched. Description of the suspect was provided and soon K9 members spotted the suspect in Middle Street, not far from the crime scene.  "The suspect’s hands were bleeding and the monitor was found in his possession." He said that the suspect appeared in the Port Elizabeth Magistrates’ Court on Friday on housebreaking charges. "Police in KwaZakhele, PE, arrested a 26-year-old suspected armed robber after pointing a firearm at police and fleeing. "This follows after a 30-year-old male complainant was robbed at gun point in Kani Street, Zwide at 07:00 on Thursday," said Col Soci. "The complainant was robbed of his two cellphones and cash money while walking in the street. He went to report the robbery at Zwide police station and when police returned with the complainant, the suspect was spotted further up the street." On seeing the police vehicle, the suspect pointed a fire arm at police and when police shot two warning shots, he attempted to flee but was arrested. "The firearm was confiscated. He appeared in the New Brighton Magistrates’ Court on Friday on charges of armed robbery, possession of an unlicensed fire arm and pointing of a firearm at police." Col Soci said that Lady Frere police quickly responded to a case of robbery on Thursday where it is alleged that the security guards, who were loading money to the ATM were confronted by armed men. "Suspects overpowered the guards and managed to flee with an undisclosed amount of money and firearms. "A search for the suspects was immediately conducted and one suspect was arrested and two firearms and the get-away car were also recovered," he said. "The suspect appeared in court on an armed robbery charge." He said that these suspects are amongst the 1 135 arrested during the past week for various crimes. "223 of these suspects were arrested for crimes detected as a result of police action – 162 for drug related crimes, 44 for driving under the influence of alcohol/drugs and 17 for illegal possession of firearms and ammunition," Col Soci described. "With these arrests, 23 firearms, 202 rounds of ammunition and 151 dangerous weapons including knives and pangas were recovered during the ongoing Safer Festive Season Operations." Eastern Cape SAPS Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, also said; “These arrests and confiscations are direct pointers of the progress SAPS is making in the fight against crime and the result of the commitment we made when we launched the Safer Festive Season Operations. We are determined to make our communities safer even beyond Festive Season." 