 Through the SAPS Mount Road Cluster Operational Command Centre (COCC), the cooperation and joint action between policing units and disciplines, continues to bear success in the Northern Areas of Port Elizabeth. "In the last 24 hours, six arrests were effected for serious crimes where firearms and drugs are our main concern in these areas," described police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu,. "Two x .38 revolvers with ammunition, 2x hijacked vehicles, mandrax, dagga and knives were confiscated." She said that on Thursday, Bethelsdorp Task Team members were patrolling in Lee Samuals Drive when they noticed two suspicious males walking in the street. "As the members got out of the vehicle, the males started running. "Members chased after them on foot and  as one person jumped over a wall, the firearm fell from his waist," described Col Naidu. "A .38 revolver was recovered. The suspect ran away as member could not leave the firearm alone and pursue after the suspect." Again on Thursday, at about 18:50, police responded to a shooting incident in Leith Street. "When they arrived, a crowd of people were in the road pelting stones at police. "One person was arrested and found to be in possession of a .38 revolver and ammunition," she added. "The suspect is also currently on bail on a Bethelsdorp case of illegal possession of a firearm from 2016." Still on Thursday, while the Cluster Crime Combatting Task Team members were patrolling  they noticed a Silver Corsa  driving in Missionvale. "As they approached the vehicle, the car sped off and a chase ensued. The driver of the vehicle threw something out the window," Col Naidu said. "Members discovered 466 mandrax tablets worth about R23 300. No arrests as the car sped off." Again on Thursday, the Provincial Gang Investigation Unit arrested a gang affiliate wanted on an attempted murder case, which took place in Gelvandale in December 2017. The suspect will appear in court on Friday. The Cluster Commander for Mount Road, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, has vowed to clean up the area of drugs and firearms. “We are coming after these criminals who think they can rule our communities. We will ensure that everything is done to maintain law and order in these hotspot areas  within the confines of the law. Communities are urged to  get actively involved with police and together we will win against these hoodlums," added Maj Gen Patekile. 