 Efforts by the Eastern Cape Provincial Organised Crime Unit to stamp out crime yielded good results when a 41-year-old man was arrested and suspected stolen goods with an estimated value of R950 000 recovered in Port Elizabeth. According to police information, the arrest was made after the vehicle hijacking task team received information  of a suspect that were busy selling stolen property - copper fittings, at a scrap metal dealer in Korsten, PE. "The information of the stolen property linked up with a truck hijacking that was reported at Mount Road SAPS on Thursday last week in the Newton Park area at approximately 16:45," described police spokesperson, Capt Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "The driver and the passenger of a truck were stopped by a Corsa vehicle and they were called out of the vehicle at gunpoint and forced into the Corsa and two suspects drove off with the truck containing copper fittings and pallets with bathroom accessories. "The suspect drove off with the complainant and the passenger and later dropped them off in Markman." She said that while following up on the information, police called the supervisor of the truck that was highjacked and he identified the copper fittings that were on recovered as the property that were on the truck. "After further investigation, the members identified a workshop in Gelvandale and at this address they recovered seven pallets of bathroom accessories that were taken from the truck and the estimated value is R850 000," Capt Janse Van Rensburg said. "A case of possession of suspected stolen property was opened and will be investigated with the Hijacking case. The suspect will appear in the New Brighton Magistrate Court on Wednesday. Mount Road Cluster Commander, Maj Gen Thembisile Patikile, said "All dealers in second-hand goods are required to report all suspicious transactions to the police, when they suspect that the seller of goods is providing false information about it or where the goods are suspected to be stolen or tampered with." 