 Some of South Africa's best open water swimmers are expected to converge on Marina Martinique, Jeffreys Bay, this Sunday for the first round of The Swim Series for 2018.  The Series, one of the few Swimming SA sanctioned open water swimming (OWS) events in the country, offers registered swimmers the opportunity to attain SSA qualifying times to take part in the SA OWS Championships taking place at the same venue in March. Namibian record breaking swimming sensation, Philip Seidler (19) leads a talent of swimmers at this weekends meet where he will be taking part in the 10km race.  Also registered is 13 year old Freestate age group swimming star, Chloe le Roux, whose family has delayed their return from holiday so that the youngster can take part in the Series.  Le Roux is the current CANA African OWS Champion in the 1km and 3km for the under 13 age group and the SA OWS Champion in the 3km distance for this age group. She is also one of SA's top up and coming pool swimmers and certainly a bright prospect for the future.  The Western Province has a strong contingent of over a dozen swimmers coming down with Nicholas Campbell (17) up against Seidler in the 10km swim with a handful of other regions also represented.  "Marina Martinique is by far one of the best open water swimming venue in the country, " says Series organiser Mike Zoetmulder of Zsports Events NPC. "The setting within the Marina and the warm salt water conditions offer the swimmers an ideal opportunity to attain their best qualifying times ahead of this year's National Championships at the same venue in two months time."   This Sunday's events start with a 10km and 5km swim at 9am, a 500m and 1km swim starting at 09:10 and the 3km swim at 11am. For further information and online registration, see www.zsports.co.za. Late entries are accepted up to 30 minutes before the event but these come with a R50 late entry penalty. Image: St Francis Bay Swimmer and World Lifesaving Champion, Amica de Jager, will be leading the local challenge on Sunday as EP's current top open water swimmer. 