 New British Airways research has found South Africans owe it to themselves to take leave that they’re entitled to rather than fretting about work that will pile up or waiting for a time to go away that suits all their colleagues or clients. A study by the airline in conjunction with its annual January sale has found that half of working respondents haven’t taken a two-week break in the last year because they either couldn’t get time off or were worried about the workload on their return. While 65% felt their employer provides an adequate number of holidays each year, 60% ended the year with leave-days owing to them because they were saving the days for a holiday they didn’t take or their workload was too heavy to allow for leave. What’s more, shoehorning in a week off left most breadwinners frustrated and unsettled, with 61% saying they either felt they hadn’t had a long enough break or that they hadn’t fully “switched off” from work. 73% said they thought about work or other commitments a lot while on holiday. Those who’d been overseas wished they’d spent more time at the destination (66%) or didn’t get to see all they’d wanted to (35%), while 70% said they’d visited the same holiday destination up to five times. Nick Hewer, former advisor to the UK production of The Apprentice said, “A happy workforce is key to having an efficient working environment and most importantly, a successful business. Employees need time off to unwind and relax in order to perform to the best they can.” Sue Petrie, British Airways’ Commercial Manager for Southern Africa says, “Going on holiday is always exciting and we all enjoy the countdown to the day it starts, but judging from the results of this survey, many people are reluctant to venture somewhere new. “The fact that many South African travellers repeatedly return to the same destination may partly be due to lack of time to plan holidays because of the pressures of work. But returning to the same destination is likely to make you feel as though your trip’s going by more quickly, whereas new holiday experiences will make you feel as though you’ve been away from your routine for longer.” Petrie adds that the growing awareness of the need for work-life balance ties in to the rise of what’s being termed experientialism: the realisation that you get more long-term happiness from the memories of an amazing journey or experience than from material goods. “Buying a designer handbag may feel like it brings happiness – and of course there’s nothing wrong with buying goods – but spending the same amount on, say, a holiday in your bucket-list destination will be more rewarding in the long-term.” For those looking to take advantage of the savings available, British Airways is on sale until midnight on 30th January and BA Holidays has compiled a list of the best holiday breaks. See www.britishairways.com. British Airways Holidays Research – South Africa Research methodology British Airways commissioned Atomik Research to run a global online survey in 12 markets: the US, UK, South Africa, India, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore, UAE, France, Germany, Italy and Hong Kong. Atomik targeted over 2,000 adults in each market, including 2,001 respondents in South Africa. The fieldwork took place between 20th December 2017 and 4th January 2018. Holidays taken in 2017 South Africans not taking enough two-week holidays Why aren’t South African employees taking more two-week holidays? Employees not making the most of their holiday allowance Holiday trends – re-visiting destinations, new countries visited and desired holiday plans Other stats 