 THERE is increasing research that supports the argument that the creative and cultural industries are adding significantly to GDP growth, employment and social cohesion both nationally and around the world. Yet, while the creative economy continues to gain traction within national and regional economies, new sets of questions and challenges related to the future and sustainability of the creative economy are emerging. These, and other important creative industry trends and debates, will be considered at the South African Cultural Observatory’s (SACO) third International Conference held at the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium in Port Elizabeth on 7 and 8 March. The deadline for abstract and panel discussion submissions for the conference is at the end of January. “Looking beyond our current experiences and conceptions of the creative economy the conference hopes to re-envision what the future of the creative and cultural industries will mean for practitioners, professionals, policy makers, researchers and anyone involved in creative economic pursuits,” SACO chief executive Prof Richard Haines said. “Exploring the theme ‘Beyond the creative economy? Trends and Issues in National and Regional Economies,’ the conference will provide a platform to discuss global and local research in the cultural and creative industries and arts, culture and heritage sectors and explore some of the creative economy trends we are expecting to see in the next few years and beyond. “We have had an overwhelming response so far and look forward to receiving final abstracts before the deadline at the end of the month,” Haines added. The deadline for paper abstract submissions, presentations and panel discussions is Wednesday 31 January at 5pm. Potential speakers can submit their abstracts and motivations online. The standard rate for the conference is R750 and R500 for students with early bird fees for those registering before January 31. Image: DEADLINE LOOMS: Submissions for the South African Cultural Observatory’s third international conference close on  January 31. The conference will take a look at what lies ‘beyond the creative economy’, exploring the role of and challenges facing the arts, culture and heritage sectors and the creative industries in contributing to social and economic development. 