 After managing to hold onto her position as Mayor of Cape Town early this month, Patricia de Lille is once again fighting for political survival after the Democratic Alliance's (DA) Federal Executive authorized the DA caucus in the City of Cape Town to lodge a motion of no confidence against her. According to Bonginkosi Madikizela - DA Western Cape Leader, this is due to a number of reasons which have led to this unprecedented move: Audit findings: "In the AG’s assessment these significant findings involve failures of leadership at the first level of assurance, which includes the Executive Mayor, and the subsequent governance breakdown that flows from that," described Madikizela. He said that in this regard, it is important to note the following: Drought crisis management: "The Mayor has also been removed from directing the City’s response to the current prolonged drought. Her failure to manage this correctly and to communicate accurate information has played a material role in the current public panic and negatively impeded the City’s response to the current crisis," Madikizela said. "She actively withheld information, misdirected officials, delayed budget decisions, interfered with project plans and undermined the rollout of augmentation projects as a result. Furthermore, she failed to push national government to fulfill its legal responsibilities – at the cost and risk to the residents of Cape Town. This is in of itself has posed a massive governance risk." Federal Executive decision: The African National Congress (ANC) in the Cape Town council has tabled a motion of no confidence against the Mayor, which is due for debate on Wednesday. "The FedEx has thus authorized the caucus - which has already expressed its lack of confidence in the Mayor by a way of a caucus vote - the right to support the ANC’s motion. While this is an unprecedented move, the ANC correctly in its motion details many, but not all, of the maladministration that the Mayor is responsible for," said Madikizela. "The FedEx has taken this step on the basis that the caucus, and the Party has too lost faith in her leadership. It is therefore in the best interests of the people of Cape Town and good governance – given the threat that Patricia de Lille poses to both – that we have no choice but to remove her as the Mayor." He said that this is a demonstration of the fact that the party is able to rise above narrow party-political interests and to serve the democratic project in South Africa. "We have previously appealed to the ANC to support motions of no confidence against President Jacob Zuma due the very obvious damage he has to South Africa and his leading role in state capture and corruption. It is for similar reasons that the FedEx has authorised the caucus to vote for a motion to remove Patricia de Lille. We reached this point due to the untenable and destructive role played by the Mayor," Madikizela added. "Patricia de Lille has played an important role in South Africa’s democratic history. It is truly saddening that her conduct has forced us to act to remove her. However, no matter someone’s history or popularity, we have a greater obligation to protecting the principles of good governance and ensuring effective delivery to all, especially the people of Cape Town." image: Courtesy of South African History Online. 