 A policewoman from the Mount Road Cluster Crime Combating Task Team (CCCTT) showed there are still many good cops in the force after she went beyond the call of duty and apprehended a 27-year-old suspect after he had allegedly raped a 40-year-old woman on Monday. "Tired after an exhausting 12 hour shift, Const Mayinje was dropping off her colleagues during the early hours of Monday morning, at about 00:15, when she noticed a woman standing at the robots on the John Tallant Road, Swartkops, in Port Elizabeth, said police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu. "The woman flagged down the Constable and after interviewing her, she informed Const Mayinje that she was allegedly raped and needed to get home. "At the time, she did not want to open a case as she alleged that she did not know the perpetrator." Col Naidu said that Const Mayinje after dropping off her colleagues further interviewed the 40-year-old woman, who alleged that she was on her way home on Sunday, at about 21:00, in a jikeleza (township taxi) from Zinyoka to Zwide when the driver of the taxi stopped to pick up more passengers. "However, the driver was apparently hijacked by four men, who dropped off the victim and the driver in Perseverance," she described. "The driver then forced the woman into the bushes and allegedly raped her. "Const Mayinje then contacted radio control and enquired whether a vehicle hijacking case was reported and it was confirmed that the driver reported the case at SAPS Kwadwesi." The Constable then took the victim to Kwadwesi police station and on further investigation, the suspect, who had already left the station was brought back to the station. "The victim identified the suspect. "He was arrested and detained at SAPS Swartskops on a charge of rape," Col Naidu said. "The 27-year-old suspect will appear in the Motherwell Magistrate's Curt on Wednesday. "Const Mayinje only went home hours later after detaining the suspect and registering a case of rape." The shy policewoman commented that "Arresting criminals and ensuring the safety of all citizens is her vocation and she will not hesitate to go the extra mile to protect women and children from unfeeling and cold-blooded criminals as crimes against women and children is one of our priorities." 