 The Provincial Gang Investigation Unit has secured yet another life sentence for a gang affiliate after the sentencing of an Upstand Dogs gang member on Thursday. According to police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu, 24-year-old David Carelse of the Upstand Dogs gang was sentenced in the Port Elizabeth High court for murder, attempted murder, illegal possession of a firearm and illegal possession of ammunition. "He was sentenced to life imprisonment for murder;  five years for attempted murder, 15 years for illegal possession of a firearm and five years for illegal possession of ammunition," she described. "All other sentences will run concurrent to the life sentence." It is believed that on  1 April 2016, Shannon Van Sensie (27), affiliated to the Dustlife gang, was shot several times inside a shop in  Zimdahl Street in Gelvandale, Port Elizabeth. "Van Sensie and friends were drinking inside the shop when Carelse appeared and started shooting. No one else except Van Sensie was wounded . Carelse then ran away," said Col Naidu. "The following day, 2 April 2016 police arrested Carelse for possession of a magazine and a drill bit. "On 3rd April 2016, Public Order Policing (POP) members recovered a firearm at the back of a house in Zimdahl Street. "An enquiry docket was opened at the time as no one was arrested. The firearm was sent for ballistic and forensic testing and the results positively connected Carelse and the firearm to the murder of Van Sensie and attempted murder of the others." She said that this is the 15th life sentence handed out to gang affiliates in Port Elizabeth in the last 10 months. The Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, has welcomed the sentencing and commended the investigating officer on the  excellent investigation of the case. "These  sentences were as a result of an inter-grated approach by the different units within the criminal justice system. It is with pride that we see our members work extremely hard to remove criminals from our streets and to ensure safety of our citizens. Such sentences  re-assures the community of our commitment to our call of duty," added  Maj Gen Patekile.    