 The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the City of Cape Town has on Wednesday was left hanging after the African National Congress (ANC) withdrew its motion of no confidence against Cape Town Mayor, Patricia de Lille. The DA had come out in support of the ANC-sponsored motion, which was to be debated in Council on Wednesday. "While they had initially claimed that their motion was brought on by numerous allegations of maladministration against the mayor, they have demonstrated today that they would much rather engage in petty party politics than do what is best for the people of Cape Town," said Bonginkosi Madikizela - DA Western Cape Leader. "The DA’s Federal Executive had taken an unprecedented decision to place narrow political interests aside and vote for the motion of no confidence due to the prima facie evidence against the Mayor brought to the fore by an independent council investigation and the Auditor General. "The ANC has been fully appraised of these facts. They are aware that the independent investigation took the view that the Mayor had demonstrated behaviour and actions which constituted gross misconduct, gross dereliction of duty, and conduct that amounted to deceiving Council." Madikizela said that in addition, they have full knowledge that the AG downgraded the City’s audit status from clean, to unqualified with conditions. These findings include: "It is not surprising that the ANC have ignored these crucial facts in the interest of politicking. "The DA has tabled its own Motion of No Confidence against the Mayor based on the reasons stated above and this should be debated within 10 days of the motion being tabled with the Speaker of Council," he added. "The decision to support today’s motion was made with the realisation that the findings by the AG and the independent investigation are damning and variant to the principles of DA governments which seek to be free of corruption, efficient and focused on delivery to the people that we serve." Madikizela said that this has been informed by the understanding that the governance failures which have been allowed to thrive under Mayor de Lille have completely compromised the City’s ability to deliver effectively. "This is particularly concerning in light of the current drought crisis we find ourselves in. That is why the DA moved to remove her from the management of the drought as she sought to actively undermine the efforts to deal with it effectively. "She actively withheld information, misdirected officials, delayed budget decisions, interfered with project plans and undermined the rollout of augmentation projects as a result," he described. "Furthermore, she failed to push national government to fulfill its legal responsibilities – at the cost and risk to the residents of Cape Town. This is in of itself has posed a massive governance risk. "While DA Federal Executive believes in the presumption of innocence until proven otherwise, and agreed for the mayor to be subjected to internal processes to clear her name, continuous acts of defiance from her and new damming revelations have resulted in her own caucus tabling this motion." Madikizela said they will therefore move ahead with this motion alone "in order to restore Cape Town to the best run City in the country". image: Courtesy of South African History Online. 