 Three men arrested for allegedly stealing a Plasma TV during a house robbery in Kwazakhele, Port Elizabeth, were granted R500 bail each when they appeared before the Motherwell Magistrate's Court on Thursday. They were arrested on Tuesday in Kwazakhele. According to the State Prosecutor, the accused tricked the plaintiff into thinking she was helping them, before they turned on her. She explained that accused number 1 knocked the door at her house and asked for water and left. After 10 minutes, he came back to the house accompanied by accused number 3, and produced a firearm before demanding a plasma television from the woman. The plaintiff, however noticed that the suspects, were driving a Toyota Avanza that didn’t have a registration number plates. However, days later she happened to come across the same Avanza at a car wash, but this time, it had a Western Cape registration number plate. When she went closer to the car wash, she saw the accused and luckily a police patrol vehicle drove by and the plaintiff managed to report to them what had happened leading to the the arrest of the suspects. The driver of the Avanza, who is accused number 4, was questioned and he apparently admitted to dropping off the Plasma TV and other items at a certain house, where the TV and other items were found. At the house, police found a 19-year-old woman, who is supposed to be doing her Grade 12 this year and she was also arrested as accused number 2 for being in the stash house. The court heard that all the accused were first offenders, therefore the Magistrate saw it fit that they get released on bail. She still emphasised that receiving bail does not necessarily mean that they have been found not guilty. Bail conditions are that they don’t contact the plaintiff/s, they will be under house arrest between 6pm and 6am, they must report to the nearest police station three times a week on Monday, Wednesday, and Friday between 8am and 5pm. The accused will return to the same court on the 28th of March. 