 Quick response by Port Elizabeth police to information received led to the swift arrest of a suspected gang affiliate in Helenvale, Port Elizabeth, following a shooting incident on Tuesday.  According to police spokesperson, Colonel Priscilla Naidu, a group of teenagers were sitting in front of a house in Deveril Road, Helenvale, when the suspect opened fire and a bullet struck a 15-year-old girl in her lower arm. “The Visible gang Intervention Team was immediately at the crime scene and a description of the suspect was given by witnesses,” she said. “A 17-year-old teenager was arrested in Leith Street. "He is detained on six charges of attempted murder and will appear in court on Thursday.” She added that another shooting occurred while the Public Order Policing were searching for the suspect in the above shooting. “A 20-year-old suspect was arrested in Kobus Road and a 9mm firearm was confiscated. He is detained on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm.  “The Provincial Gang Investigation Unit is busy investigating whether the suspect can be linked to any cases," Col Naidu added. "The firearm was reported stolen in a Mount Road case in October 2017.” She added that another incident occurred where a 30-year-old sustained a gunshot to her chest while she was sitting on the steps of her house at about 14:00. “The suspect was at the corners of Leith and Bongo Streets when shots were fired in the victim’s direction. A bullet wounded her in the chest. “The Provincial Gang Investigation Unit is investigating a case of attempted murder. No arrests made,” Colonel Naidu described. The Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Maj Gen Thembisile Patekile, commended the members for their swift response which resulted in the apprehension of suspects. "We will not allow these criminals to cause mayhem in our areas and we will hunt them down and ensure that they face the full brunt of the law. We are committed in ensuring that the people of Port Elizabeth live in safer communities where no fear and violence prevail," added Maj Gen Patekile.  