 Police in Port Elizabeth continue to target and reduce criminal access to and the use of firearms in the communities. This past week, nine illegal firearms were seized and eight suspects arrested. "This weekend alone four firearms and a number of rounds of ammunition were seized and two people arrested on separate cases," said police spokesperson, Col Priscilla Naidu. "A 19 year old suspect was arrested on Saturday, at about 16:20 by members of SAPS Bethesldorp and the Visible Gang Intervention Team. "It is alleged that while Bethelsdorp members were patrolling they noticed the suspect running in Ferreira’s Grounds with a firearm in his hand." She said that the VGIT members called for backup and the suspect was arrested in the Kwadwesi area with a 9mm pistol. He appeared in court on Monday for illegal possession of firearm and ammunition. "On Sunday, at about 00:30, a member from the Cluster Operational Command Centre was on his way home when he was accosted by a group of people," Col Naidu said. "The member went home and came back, assisted by an off duty reservist. "The group when seeing the member started running. As they ran, they dropped a hunting rifle. "It was confiscated. No arrests." She said that also on Sunday, at about 18:30, Custer Operational Command Centre members attended a complaint of shooting in the Bridgemead area and while busy with the complainant, they heard more shots being fired. "Five people were seen moving on foot between trees heading towards Malabar. Members followed and found the suspects. "On searching them, they found one person in possession of a shotgun and a.38 revolver and ammunition," Col Naidu said. "A 38 year old suspect was arrested and detained on a charge of illegal possession of a firearm and illegal possession of ammunition." The Cluster Commander for Mount Road Cluster, Major General Thembisile Patekile, sends out a stern warning to those criminals who are illegally in possession of firearms that "we will not tolerate criminal behaviour in our cluster". "Every firearm received, protects a life and leads to a reduction in crime therefore we appeal to the community to report illegal firearms. You might save someone’s life," added Major General Patekile.  