 Former Nelson Mandela Bay Deputy Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, of the United Democratic Movement (UDM) has set his sights on Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality City Manager, Johann Mettler, accusing him of wanting to see through what he termed illegal evictions in the City. "As the first Council Meeting of 2018 nears on Thursday, I remind all residents and voters and councillors of City Manager, Johann Mettler’s, insistence that the most vulnerable of residents in our fair city be evicted at the Democratic Alliance’s (DA) baasskap whims – it is a repulsive attitude," Bobani said in a statement on Tuesday. "It is all the more obscene because the DA’s offensive eviction policy was defeated, on the very day, 30 November 2017, that the minority DA City Government held on for dear life when the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) protected Mayor Athol Trollip against a motion of no confidence. "The DA’s tacit EFF support vaporised when the baasskap party’s motion to evict was defeated, with the very EFF, who had moments earlier allowed the DA to continue its minority rule voted against evictions." Bobani further said that now City Manager Mettler wants the Council Resolution reviewed. "The DA lost in Council. But the DA is determined to remain baas and what the baas says must and will be done, never mind what the people’s representatives decided. "Does this not sound frightfully familiar – like apartheid browbeating? Of course it does! The Nationalists, sorry, the DA knows best and all will do as the Nats, sorry, the DA orders. Die baas het gepraat!" Bobani said. "Never again! "Council had spoken. Even Trollip’s hand-picked servant, DA Eastern Cape Provincial Leader, Councillor Nqaba Bhanga, abstained from supporting the noisome evictions motion, even in the face of public pressure by Baas Athol, on the Council floor, in the defeat of this critical, yet despicable DA motion to continue Nelson Mandela Bay evictions." He said that now Mettler wants the Council Resolution reviewed, "because the Council Resolution does not fit the DA’s baasskap policies". "Well, I, for one, am waiting for you in the long grass Baas Athol and your arbeider Mettler," Bobani warned. "You will not harm the most vulnerable of our residents. You will no longer harm our residents. Period." 