 Employees at a Dis-Chem Pharmacy branch at the Walmer Shopping Centre in Walmer, Port Elizabeth, embarked on a protest on Monday, which led to the arrest of four protesters after the pharmacy apparently invoked an interdict. The workers are reportedly demanding that Dis-Chem Pharmacy pays them a minimum salary of R12 500. The arrested – two men and two women, were taken in for booking at the Walmer Police Station, according police spokesperson, Captain Johan Reeder. He, however, said that police were still drafting charges against them. "The shop manager got an interdict against people and they didn't want to move when the police arrived there, but we are not sure of what was exactly in the interdict but we are busy with the arrests," Capt Reeder described. EFF distance itself from the Dis-Chem Pharmacy arrests While it was believed that the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) was behind the protest, EFF Nelson Mandela Bay spokesperson, Luvuyo Ponase, said that the party was not behind the protest at Dis-Chem. "The said protestors were members of the community, who were pledging solidarity to the workers of Dis-Chem, but it must be made clear that the EFF was not behind the protest action. "The said members were not even clad in EFF regalia, which denotes that they were not mandated by the EFF and therefore our involvement as the organisation cannot and should not be attached to the actions of this morning," he described. EFF still pledged solidarity with the workers Although the EFF was not part of the protest action, Ponase said that they pledge "solidarity with exploited workers everywhere". "We represent the working class and whenever such exploitation occurs, we will defend workers and associate with the protest movement. "The EFF is carefully and closely following the events of today and will find means to support those protesting for the rights of workers even if it means finding ways of mobilising resources and support for them,” he described. "Finally, the EFF sends a strong message to Dis-Chem and other retail stores to respect workers and not treat them like they are sub-human or else they will face the wrath of the EFF." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 