 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, accompanied by Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Police Chief, Yolanda Faro, and other officials, officially opened the new Motherwell Police Precinct at the Thusong Centre in Motherwell, on Wednesday. The Municipality’s Executive Director of Safety and Security, Keith Meyer, took the opportunity to set the record straight on a belief that the Metro Police will now be taking over SAPS duties. "We are not here to take over from the police because they will always play the main role in fighting crime,” he said. "But we are here to play a part in the fight against crime - play a big role to establish the greater relationship with the community of Motherwell and that's very important.” Meyer said that opening the precinct is another part of formalising the relationship between the SAPS and the Metro Police – as “many know that SAPS and the Metro Police have a close working relationship”. "Let's hold hands in the fight against crime," he said. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC of Roads and Safety & Security, Litho Suka, said that there are many vehicles in the region that need to be checked, which is why the Metro Police also have to assist the Metro’s Traffic Police. He also pointed out that townships need cleaning up and the Metro Police must monitor those, who illegally dump rubbish at undesignated spots. "Our visibility will be much clearer now that there is this place. Expect the Metro Police to work as a team with honest, transparency and accountability," he described. Current Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality administration serious about fight against crime Meanwhile, Mayor Bobani said that the current coalition that is running the Bay is very serious about fighting crime. He reminded everyone that he was with Police Minister, Bheki Cele, in the Northern Areas on Monday to discuss serious matters about crime fighting. "We want our police cluster to be closer to the people. Local and national government are serious about fighting crime. We want to warn criminals that their time is over." The Mayor also said that his administration is aiming for every ward in the city to have its own Metro Police outpost. Meanwhile, Faro pointed out that they are serious about coming closer to communities. She said they may end up squatting at Ward Councillors’ offices while the Metro builds more Ward Precinct offices like the one opened on Wednesday. "We can gain trust from residents by being closer to them," she said. Faro refused to say the exact number of Metro Police officers that will man the new office at the Thusong Centre for security reasons. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 