 Since accidents and emergencies happen everywhere - even at the workshop, the project site or in the office, regulation requires that there be first aid kits and a competent first aider in the workplace – this is where Port Elizabeth-based Gardmed Ambulance Service comes in. Garmed Ambulance Service can provide you with Level One First Aid Training, which will teach you or your staff the basics on how to treat someone, if they are injured or fall ill at your premises or project site. The course takes place over a minimum period of 16 hours spread out over two days – so you do not have to worry about your employees staying away from posts for a long time. During this time, participants will be taught how to handle a wide range of First Aid emergencies. Learn the basics at Garmed First Aid Training Participants will be able to help prevent accidents by developing a safety-orientated lifestyle, recognize when a person is in need of First Aid and be able to provide them with professional First Aid treatment until emergency medical services arrive on the scene. Garmed’s First Aid Training module covers subjects such as the principles of First Aid and safety, how to examine a patient, how to treat a person who is chocking, burnt, in shock or feinting, wounded or bleeding, has a fracture, injured their head or spine, etc. Participants will also be taught how to perform CPR, Emergency Scene Management, and the various methods of transporting an injured patient. Garmed will make sure you are prepared for anything Should you feel the need for a more specific or in-depth training session that covers a subject that is not included in the programme, Garmed can accommodate you and provide additional training which includes the particular training you require. Once you have completed and passed your training, Garmed will award participants with a First Aid Level (1) One certificate that has been approved by the Department of Labour; a qualification which is valid for a period of three years. Need your qualification renewed? No problem; simply attend a suitable one-day re-qualification course and you will be fit to perform First Aid for another three years. If you are interested in earning your First Aid qualifications, simply contact Garmed by calling 041 373 6777or 074 506 5404, or email them at training@gardmed.co.za. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 