 The sad truth is that many employees feel disengaged at work. While there are numerous statistics to support this statement, one thing is certain: If your workers feel engaged, your organization is more likely to grow. Although most employers understand this concept, they often do not know how to improve employee engagement. The following are 10 tips to help address the matter of employee engagement. Let’s face it, hiring the wrong individuals will cost you lots of time and money. While they should have the relevant skills, experience and qualifications for the job, they should also be the right people on a personal level. If you have a vibrant, dynamic team, you don’t want to hire people who refuse to think outside the box. Employees will often look up to their managers as workplace role models. Leaders should show the characteristics and behaviour that you expect all workers to have. Statistically, when that happens, employees will be more engaged and focused. They are also much more likely to stick with your company and not jump ship to work for the competition. When you hire someone for a job, it is reasonable to assume they will want to progress within your company. They are unlikely to do the same job for their entire working lives. Much of their skills and experience will be earned while carrying out their work. Providing them with access to training and development will build up their skills set. Plus, it makes them even more valuable to your organization. Workers on the shop floor aren’t the only ones who need access to training. This should apply to management-level employees, too. If you want your leaders to set a good example, they should also receive the right training for their roles. Sometimes workers can become disengaged if they feel like just another cog in the wheel. The people who work for you are your company’s biggest assets. Without them, you wouldn’t have a business to run. It’s crucial that your staff know where they fit in the grand scheme of things. Show them how essential they are to your business operations. Give them a clear link between their roles and your strategy. One thing employees hate is when managers aren’t transparent with them. Trust and respect is a two-way street. Your workers invest their time and effort into helping you grow your business. It’s important that you are truthful with them. Employees may lack the confidence to do a good job if they feel managers aren’t approachable. Your organization’s leaders should be friendly and open to new ideas and feedback. If a worker offers a suggestion that can improve something, don’t dismiss it. If they need help to improve certain skills, help them with their personal development. Many companies make the classic mistake of dispensing with pleasantries. As businesses get busier, being polite to workers becomes an afterthought. A simple “please” or “thank you” doesn’t cost anything, but it can make a world of difference to productivity. Acknowledgement among peers is also a good way to build trust. We’re all human. Sometimes things in our personal lives conflict with our working days. More companies are warming up to the idea of offering flexibility to their staff. For example, flexible working hours are useful for parents with children in tow. Such a change in policy can significantly increase employee engagement. 10. Make Work Fun Last, but not least, make sure you don’t make work boring. It’s good to treat your staff to a fun social event or outing every so often. To find out more about improving your employee engagement strategy, contact Drake International on 041 363 8141 or visit our website – www.drakeintl.com. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 