 New address Masterton’s Coffee and Tea Specialists opened their new store and roastery at 92 Main Road, Walmer, Port Elizabeth on Tuesday, 4 December. The décor is a lovely mix of old and new, with all the familiar pictures, antiques and collectibles from the Russell Road store that represent the history of this 94-year-old Roastery. The building itself is a typical old Walmer home that has been beautifully adapted. The interior has wooden floors, counters and the original roof beams, that have been exposed and highlighted by soft lights that bring a sense of cosiness to the shop. Mastertons has a great offering One of the great features of this store is that there is a coffee and tea bar where you can purchase a range of delicious beverages. Your Baristas have a wealth knowledge of their wares and will willingly and happily share this with you. On the opposite side of the room is another counter where you can expect the friendly service you have come to know and purchase all your usual favourites. A wide range of original coffee blends; infusion and chai teas; and loads of other delicious products are available. The centre counter has the widest range of coffee grinders, filter machines, espresso machines and other accessories available in the region. The roasting shed, is viewable through a large glass window and is really where all the magic happens, and ensures that distinctive Mastertons aroma that Coffee Lovers have come to know and expect from this business.  Single Origin Coffee For the coffee aficionados, Mastertons have launched a new Single Origin range of Speciality coffees. Each bag of coffee comes with a label bearing the coffees cupping notes that explain its taste, growing altitude, varietal, processing technique, roasting style and the date of the roasting. I sampled the Burundi Kavugangoma. This coffee is grown in volcanic soil at an altitude of 1800m and comes from a single plot of land known as Microlot 2051. Brewed by the experts behind the counter, this is probably the best coffee that I have ever tasted. Strong in taste, full in the mouth with hints of berries and a long, delicious aftertaste. Wow. I’ll be back for more. Competition If you visit Mastertons and spend more that R250 before the end of Friday, you will stand a chance of winning an awesome Jura E8 automatic coffee machine valued at R17 000. The store is open from 7.00 to 17.00 Monday to Friday and 7.00 to 13.00 on Saturday. There is ample off street parking and it is easily accessible between 7th and 8th Avenue Walmer. For more information call 041 585 4044. Follow Mastertons on Facebook, Twitter and Instagram to find out what they have on offer. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 