 Buying a house is a bit like planning for your wedding day — there are months packed with excitement, stress, planning, and then, finally, the big payoff. Before you ever set foot inside, check out what’s happening on top. Does the roof look relatively new or is it caving in? If the roof is eye-catching (as in, “My, look at that gaping hole”), chances are it could end up costing you. A newer roof, on the other hand, could mean a lower homeowners insurance rate. Likewise, a roof made of an especially sturdy material is better equipped to defend against wind and hail (and can save you from a potential claim). When you step inside your prospective abode, focus on the structural stuff — aging appliances, loose wires — and tune out any freshly painted walls or upscale decor. The foundation will be there long after the paint has started chipping and you want that to be what lasts. Get a copy of the approved building plans from the municipality or the owner and check that all structures on the property are on plan. This could save lots of money in the future if you decide to do renovations and find that there are structures which are not approved and may possibly never be approved. Aside from the basics, like quality windows and countertops, think about the purpose of your home and the requirements for your lifestyle, like storage for a large book collection or a big entertainment area. It can also be smart to spring for a home with an extra bedroom if you’re planning on kids or guests. And if your significant other is a night owl while you’re a connoisseur of cat naps, it might be a good idea to look for a house with an entertainment area set far away from the master bedroom. When you’re poking around a new kitchen, don’t stop at eye level — get underneath the sink and examine those pipes. Check for leaks, water damage, and mold.Not only is mold unsightly and foul-smelling, but it can also cause health problems. If you live with a baby, an elderly person, or someone with asthma, you’ll want to be especially careful before moving in with mold. Don’t just look at the building — examine the area around it. Is the house in an area prone to flooding or wildfires? Is the driveway shared with another property? If there are fences, have they been built and positioned properly? It’s a lot to take in, but when you buy a house, you can’t ignore its surroundings. Do you smell sewage, gas, or anything equally unpleasant? Sewage systems in older homes can sometimes get clogged or damaged by tree roots. Luckily, some sewer or plumbing companies can send a camera through the pipes to detect any breaks or blockages.Also worth noting: pet odors, cigarettes, and mildew. Above all else, your home should be comfortable. Check the ceiling, water pipes, and heating ducts to make sure they’re properly insulated. This can reduce heating and cooling costs and keep you comfortable in summer and winter. Double-paned windows can also save you money down the road. Plus, they can help soundproof your place from outside noise. I mean that literally. Turn on every tap and light switch, open every window and door, flush the toilets, even taste the water. Buying a house is a big step — maybe one of the biggest — and you need to know how everything works firsthand. That way, you can address problem areas and see if there’s a cost-effective solution. There’s only so much you can do with your own 5 senses. You’ll also want to enlist a professional to ensure the foundation is solid. If there is a lot of wood in the building/s, make sure that you request a borer beetle certificate and ensure that the relevant clause is incorporated in your offer to purchase. For professional legal advice, contact Goldberg & de Villiers Inc on 041 501 9800. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 