 In preparation for the busiest time of the year on our roads, the Nelson Mandela Bay Traffic College held a graduation ceremony to increase the number of qualified traffic cops on the road this December. During the ceremony, the newly-graduated traffic officers from across the Eastern Cape Province were urged to be dedicated and exemplary in their work to keep all road users safe. Advocate Keith Meyer, who is the Executive Director of Safety and Security at the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, advised the traffic cops to respect and love their uniform because they enrolled at the NMB Traffic College for the blue uniforms – and not for the orange prison outfit. “The most important thing for any person to have a future is to remember where they are coming from,” Meyer reminded them while delivering his speech. "Remain humble and make your contribution in the National efforts and in eliminating crime.” Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, who was the keynote speaker, started off by reminding the new traffic officers and their families that they graduated on a special day (their graduation), in a special month (December) of a special year (the year of Mama Sisulu and Nelson Mandela). "As you wear these uniforms, you must remember that you got the privilege thanks to a selfless Tata Mandela. "You are here today because this is your call of duty. You are not trained to go to jail, but trained to decrease the fatalities on our roads," he said. Bobani congratulated the graduates and told them to go out there and make their parents and their communities proud. Highest achiever at the NMB Traffic College 30-year-old Ukhona Lali from the Buffalo City Municipality was named the highest achiever in the class of 2018 at the traffic college. According to her mother, Balise Lali, Ukhona has always been an achiever since she started going to school and would always come home with awards and trophies. "I am extremely happy for Ukhona and I mostly thank God for all her achievements because I know that it's not because of her strength, but because of God that she was able to get her achievements," she said. Ukhona said: "I am very happy and excited about this day and for being crowned the best achiever." Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 