 The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is assuring residents and visitors that work is being done to ensure that they are safe this festive season. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC for Safety & Security, Lutho Suka, told RNEWS that the Metro is rolling out its festive season safety plan. He said that while Police Minister, Bheki Cele,launched the SAPS’ national festive season operations in Motherwell, Port Elizabeth, about a month ago, the Metro also launched its own operations – doubling up efforts by law enforcement to ensure everyone in the Bay is safe.  Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality CCTV network While there are about 1 062 Closed Circuit Television cameras dotted across the Nelson Mandela Bay, around 200 are still working. Most have run out of their service life-span after being installed about 10 years ago. Suka said that he will be engaging with the service provider to check on how far have they gone in terms of fixing some of the cameras that still can be saved so as to boost the security situation in the Bay. He added that they have a plan to have working CCTV cameras installed at crime hotspots in every Ward in the Bay to ensure that the both the suburbs and the townships enjoy the same level of security. "We are having committee meetings, we are responding, and our Metro Police are showing visibility everywhere as a result people trust the Metro Police because of our visibility," he also said. "We are on the ground all the time and all over the Metro but the only problem is the shortage of man power and resources because of budget constraints, but there is something that we are doing.” On Wednesday, the Metro also officially opened the new Motherwell Police Precinct at the Thusong Centre in Motherwell. It also witnessed the graduation of new traffic officials, who are expected to boost law enforcement and safety on the various roads and highways across the Eastern Cape. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 