 Port Elizabeth police have warned residents about driving with valuables in the open after two local reporters, aged 54 and 22, were robbed of their belongings in Rula Street, New Brighton, on Wednesday at about 12:15. "This followed after the 54-year-old male photographer and the 22-year-old female reporter were in that street doing follow up enquiries after the assault and robbery at the home of a 87-year-old woman in the same street on 4 December," described police spokesperson, Captain Andre Beetge. "Three male suspects, one armed with a knife demanded their personal belongings including a laptop and two cameras." He said that, in the process, the female reporter fled from the vehicle into a nearby house and the police were notified of the incident. "The 54-year-old photographer escaped from being stabbed with the knife when he moved over to the passenger side of the white Corsa Bakkie in which they were sitting when the incident happened." Capt Beetge said that the suspects then grabbed their belongings and fled on foot. Port Elizabeth police says valuables should be locked away The Motherwell Cluster Commander, Major General Dawie Rabie, has expressed his concerns about having valuables displayed in the open in vehicles, which could spark opportunistic robberies. He added that "persons driving with vehicles should (as far as possible) transport their valuables locked in the boot of their vehicles to minimise the risks of being robbed." With the festive season getting into full swing and more and more businesses are entering high crime areas with delivery vehicles and other vehicles to conduct their business, drivers of these vehicles should be safety aware at all times. General Rabie also extended this warning to other vehicles such as ambulances, municipal vehicles and busses and taxi's. "Everyone that is moving around by vehicles and even on foot should at all times be aware of their surroundings and not take reckless risks by having valuables open in view of others around them" he added. Any person that could assist police in this investigation can contact detective Captain Jerome Mackay on 071 475 2015. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 