 Discerning. Knowledge-intensive. Agile. Sustainable. These are what Mazars considers to be the hallmarks of a modern firm. CEO Philippe Castagnac says that being a modern firm means understanding the modernity of the world around us, a world whose balance is tipped towards constant reinvention. Mazars in Port Elizabeth epitomises the spirit of constant reinvention. Established almost 50 years ago by David Cohen and Clem Morris, who were soon joined by Jack Kalogeropoulos and Terry Watson, the firm today comprises a dynamic and diverse blend of experienced and energetic young partners and a staff complement of approximately 100 people. The partnership team, in addition to Jack and Terry, comprises Leon Fourie, Morne Saayman, Adele Driscoll, Jonathan Comley (managing partner), Elizabeth Pretorius and Juli-Ann du Preez. Mazars is an international, integrated and independent organisation specialising in audit, accountancy, tax and advisory services. It has 18 000 employees in 79 countries around the world and supports clients of all sizes from SMEs to mid-caps and global players, as well as start ups and public organisations at all stages of development. Even with its vast global reach, Mazars in Port Elizabeth has deep roots in its local community. Jonathan Comley says; “This is our home, it’s where our identity lies. Most of our staff get the opportunity to gain experience in one of Mazars’ overseas offices after qualifying. This experience has been brought back by our partners to benefit and build the local economy.” “Understanding the uniquely South African challenges that local businesses face when trying to compete in an increasingly global market is what drives us to develop innovative solutions to create value for our clients. "In a world where change is the only constant, and the pace of change is increasing relentlessly, the role of the accountant needs to keep pace with the change. Our mission is to cut through the noise and provide clear, unambiguous advice.” Mazars is an organisation that cares about people. We endeavour to know each of our clients and understand the environment in which they operate. Trust is essential in our business and trust is only established by being consistent over a period of time. Some of our client relationships have existed in excess of 40 years. We also care deeply about our staff. This is demonstrated by the fact that Mazars has been awarded top employer status by the Top Employer SA organisation in 2016 and 2017. In addition to this, the Port Elizabeth office of Mazars was awarded the distinction of Exceptional Training Office by the South African Institute of Chartered Accountants as recognition of the robust training programme which it offers to candidate Chartered Accountants. The only training office in the Eastern Cape to be awarded this prestige. 