 Finance Minister Malusi Gigaba’s Budget Speech has seen him make “difficult decisions” to address a revenue shortfall and to fund free higher education. An increase in value-added tax (VAT), fuel levy and a higher estate duty tax are just some of the things South Africans will be faced with this year. On the other hand, Minister Gigaba announced some relief for the poor and the working class in the form of below inflation increase in personal income tax, while ensuring an above average increase in social grants. As part of wide-ranging tax proposals, the Minister said the measures were being introduced, in the main, to generate an additional R36 billion in tax revenue for 2018/19. The main tax proposals for the 2018 Budget are: Tabling the 2018 Budget Speech in the National Assembly on Wednesday, the Minister said increasing VAT was unavoidable, as there was a need to maintain the integrity of public finances. “In developing these tax proposals, government reviewed the potential contributions from the three major tax instruments, which raise over 80% of our revenue - personal and corporate income tax and VAT. ? “We have increased personal income tax significantly in recent years, particularly at the higher income bands, and our corporate tax is high by international standards. ? “We have not adjusted VAT since 1993, and it is low compared to some of our peers. We therefore decided that increasing VAT was unavoidable if we are to maintain the integrity of our public finances,” he said. What the tax proposals mean for 2018/ 19 financial year In December, former President Jacob Zuma announced that from this year, government would implement fee-free higher education in a phased approach. In its budget review document, National Treasury said the central adjustments to the fiscal framework in 2018/19 are meant to: “The baseline spending reductions and tax measures feed through to the outer years of the framework, while allocations to higher education increase sharply,” National Treasury said. Vulnerable households shielded from VAT increase The Minister said, meanwhile, that vulnerable households were protected from an increase in VAT. “Vulnerable households will also be compensated through an above average increase in social grants. “Some relief will be provided for lower income individuals through an increase in the bottom three personal income tax brackets and the rebates,” Minister Gigaba said. The Minister said in addition to VAT, National Treasury would increase excise duties on luxury goods and estate duty on wealthy individuals. He said taken together, National Treasury believed that the proposals best protect the progressive nature of the country’s tax regime to minimise the impact on lower-income households. SAnews.gov.za 