 In light of the current political uncertainty in the country, the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday said that it has written to the Speaker of the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature to postpone Premier Phumulo Masualle's 2018 State of the Province Address. "The fact that the State of the Nation Address (SONA) has been postponed presents the Eastern Cape with a golden opportunity to postpone the State of the Province Address, which is scheduled for 16 February, until the ANC has finished with its political reshuffle in the province," said Bobby Stevenson, Leader of the DA in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature. While President Jacob Zuma fights for an honourable exit, in the Eastern Cape, Premier Masualle also faces a similar after he was defeated by then Secretary, Oscar Mabuyane, for the ANC Eastern Cape Chairmanship. The new ANC Eastern Cape Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) in January hinted on a reshuffle at Bhisho, which might include the redeployment of Masualle following an ANC resolution to not have two 'centres of power'  - or a situation where there are two different leaders for the party and government. "It makes no sense for a lame duck Premier and a lame duck provincial cabinet to be part of a State of the Province Address when everything could change in a matter of weeks," Stevenson said. He added that the DA believes that "what this province needs is a new direction that ensures that the right environment is created for jobs and economic growth, the eradication of corruption and an overall improvement in service delivery". "It is quite clear that even the ANC has lost confidence in the current provincial administration. "Last week, I wrote to the Speaker of the Provincial Legislature, Noxolo Kiviet, questioning whether the State of the Province Address would go ahead in the light of the undercurrence and disunity in the governing party," Stevenson described. For the letter, click HERE. However, Premier Masualle on Tuesday commenced with his Pre-State of the Province Address (SOPA) Engagements, kicking it off in Nyandeni local municipality, where he met with communities in and around Ngqeleni area. 