 The Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber (NMBBC), on Friday welcomed Isuzu to Nelson Mandela Bay and congratulated the company on the opening and unveiling of its Struandale plant in Port Elizabeth. “It is clear the Nelson Mandela Bay metro remains an attractive destination and stronghold for the automotive industry. This launch is in line with Nelson Mandela Bay’s stated intent of positioning itself as Africa’s automotive manufacturing hub. "The Business Chamber acknowledges that the investment confirms Isuzu’s confidence in the City as an investment location,” said Nomkhita Mona, CEO of the Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber. The road towards the stability of investment in the automotive industry will be supported by the Dti’s Automotive Production and Development Programme (APDP) through the 2035 SA Automotive Masterplan (SAAM), added Mona. “The policy environment will focus on ensuring that South Africa accounts for 1% of global vehicle production volumes by 2035.  Development and empowerment of black-owned business for inclusive growth as well as increasing local content are the main agenda points for future planning," she said. "We remain encouraged by some of the packages and incentives created by government for the automotive industry that will create a cascading effect of wealth creation for downstream businesses and communities. As the Business Chamber we encourage our big businesses to engage in linkages with the smaller businesses in the region.” Commenting on increased production levels, transformation and localization, Mona said she wanted “the Bay’s automotive economy to lead, innovate and disrupt in these critical areas.  One of the major issues for existing investors is an environment characterized by ease of doing business. The Business Chamber will continue to lobby to ensure that the necessary environment and provisions are made for our auto manufacturers”. “The Isuzu investment is a much needed response to mitigate the General Motors South Africa disinvestment which would have been a big blow for the city’s unemployment rate.  We are encouraged by the fact that Isuzu would absorb most of these jobs,” she said. The Nelson Mandela Bay Business Chamber congratulates Isuzu South Africa on this significant investment – and achievement and wishes the company everything of the best in the future. 