 All of us nowadays depend on computers be it for personal use or work, or for business. But, have you ever considered what would happen if you were to wake up one day and for some reason, all your precious data is suddenly gone. This is an ever-present risk especially when you use the Internet as well. While various tools are available in the market to help protect your valuable data from hackers - firewalls and various protection software packages for viruses, it is essential to have regular offsite back ups done of your most important data. This is because firewalls and anti-virus software do not exactly protect you against data loss due to theft, hardware or software failure, fire at your premises, flooding, power surges/outages or human error by your staff such as physical damage, unintentional deleting, over write, formatting etc. If you don't want to lose crucial information through any of the above, it is a good idea to create off-site back ups of all of your organisation's data. Having off-site back ups will leave you at peace knowing that your important data is safe somewhere and accessible each time you will need to recover it. For the best off-site back up services, you should trust Metrofile’s 35-year pedigree to provide you with the latest technology to manage your electronic records and information when you need it, where you need it and how you need it. The Johannesburg Stock Exchange-listed services the company provides enable businesses, private practices, organisations and government departments to manage their greatest risk, the loss of information. Metrofile has a proven track record of helping its clients to back up, manage, store and protect large volumes of active and inactive documents, images and data in both physical and electronic formats. Their services include records storage and management, image processing, back up storage and management, records management software, and records management consultancy. Many businesses today face significant record-keeping challenges, and even more businesses overlook these challenges until it is too late, and their businesses suffers significant losses. Should you not know where to start when it comes to protecting you crucial information and just need some guidance, Metrofile has a full service offering designed to assist you with all your record management needs. For more information, find Metrofile Port Elizabeth along Kohler Street, Perseverance, Port Elizabeth or call 041 463 1916; email portelizabeth@metrofile.co.za or visit us online at www.metrofile.com.  