 With an hour left to a deadline that he was given by his party, the African National Congress (ANC) to resign or face a motion of no confidence, President Jacob Zuma, who had held onto power over the past few weeks finally relented and announced his decision to resign to the nation. "I resign as president of the republic with immediate effect," Zuma said after a lengthy speech, adding the he was resigning "even though I disagree with the decision of the leadership of my organisation". Zuma maintained that while the ANC sought to remove him from office, the party had failed to explain and convince him as to what he had done wrong. "I have always been a disciplined member of the organisation," he said explaining why he had decided to follow the directive of the party, which he had ignored for days. Zuma also stressed that he had served South Africa in the best way he knew how and subjected himself to the Constitution. "I've served the people of South Africa to the best of my ability. I am forever grateful that they trusted me with their highest office in the land, but when I accepted the deployment I understood and undertook to subject myself to the supreme law of the land, the Constitution," he described. Responding to the motion of no confidence that was planned for Thursday, he said that he was not afraid of motions of no confidence or impeachments as these are constitutional mechanisms provided for the people of South Africa to remove their leaders. The motion was first proposed by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) and had been scheduled for the 22nd of February. However, due to the developments surrounding Zuma, Speaker of the National Assembly, Baleka Mbete, had written to EFF leader, Julius Malema, notifying him that the motion was now set for Thursday. He also warned about what he said were new tactics by former white minority rulers aimed at using political leaders to protect their priveledge at the expense of the majority of South Africans. Zuma further said he had noted that his continued stay in office was causing harm to the party and society, hence his decision to quit to prevent divisions forming in the party in his name. The ANC is now expected to immediately begin a process of electing Deputy President Cyril Ramaphosa as the new President of the country. Zuma's resignation comes on a day when the HAWKS raided the Saxonwold home of the controversial Gupta family, who are alleged to have been the architects of State Capture and for having undue influence on Zuma.  