 In order to prevent and combat crime that may threaten the safety and security of the community, a joint operation between King Williams Town Police, Flying Squad, K9 Unit and East London Vehicle Crime Investigation, was conducted on Tuesday night to close the Festive Season operation with a bang. Police members managed to arrest two suspects for possession of dagga and hijacking and also recovered three unlicensed firearms and ammunition. "Vigilant Police members on patrol recovered three firearms at Maclean Square in front of Shoprite, King Williams Town. At about 5h10 the Police members were patrolling the area when they spotted three suspicious males, when these males saw Police they ran away," said police spokesperson, Capt Siphokazi Mawisa. "Police gave chase and they ran into different directions and to the bushes. "The other police left behind and checked on the place where they were sitting and recovered three firearms  - two Norinco pistols and a .38 Special Revolver, with ammunition. The three firearms' serial numbers had been filed off." She said that police also utilised the resources efficiently in support of investigation of crime when they followed the information they received about a suspect, who was allegedly involved in a hijacking at Zwelitsha in May 2017. "Police members went to a house at Nonkcampa at about 01h00 and arrested a 40-year-old male for hijacking." Captain Mawisa said that a strong partnership between King Williams Town police and community is yielding much desired results. "Police also followed up information shared with them and went to a house at Ginsberg at about 03h00 where they arrested a 36 year old female for possession of dagga," she said. "Police 106 arms of dagga and four bags full of loose dagga that weighs 21,854 kg with an estimated street value of R65 000.00." she further said that teamwork between the members yielded positive results and the commitment of our police members to create a safe and secure environment for our communities was displayed by all involved. The Cluster Commander of King Williams Town, Brigadier Luntu Ngubelanga, lauded the efforts of the members and commended them for their dedication to their task. He also thanked the community for sharing valuable information, which led to the arrest of these suspects, and encouraged the community members to report the criminals and/or criminal activities to the police on Crime Stop 08600 10111, Crime Line 32211 or the nearest police station. The arrested suspects will appear at Zwelitsha and King Williams Town Magistrate’s Court soon. 