 The National Planning Commission, led by its Chairperson Minister Jeff Radebe and Deputy Chairperson Malegapuru Makgoba, has welcomed the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. “We welcome the establishment of the Commission of Inquiry into State Capture. State Capture, Crime and Corruption are symptomatic of a muddled leadership and a weak developmental State,” said the NPC in a statement. The Commission made this statement at its third annual NPC Lekgotla held from 9 to 11 February 2018, at Kopanong Conference Centre in Benoni. President Jacob Zuma appointed a Commission of Inquiry to probe allegations of State Capture on 9 January 2018. According to the President, the commission must seek “to uncover not just the conduct of some, but of all those who may have rendered our state or parts thereof vulnerable to control by forces other than the public for which government is elected”. The Lekgotla, timed midway through the second term of the NPC, provided the Commission an opportunity to review its work to date; take stock of progress made in the implementation of the National Development Plan: Vision 2030 (NDP) by Government and other sectors of society. In its reflections, the NPC said it noted the current developments with regard to allegations of criminality of top members of the police force and the ongoing exposure of acts of corruption in the public and private sectors. “We recommend that Government also adopts a similar standard of transparency in the establishment of the Commission as regard the appointment to top positions in key law enforcement agencies such as the National Directorate of Priority Prosecutions and the South African Police Service and others,” said the NPC. The Lekgotla said it agreed to request an opportunity to make representations to the Commission on State Capture with a view to ensuring that the outcome restores the country back on the path that the NDP has set for us. “The NPC considers strong leadership and a capable state as critical preconditions for the proper implementation of the NDP,” said the NPC. – SAnews.gov.za 