 The Vukuzakhe Youth Employment programme launched by the Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, Mmusi Maimane in Motherwell, Port Elizabeth, on Friday aims to ensure employment for young people by securing internship space and practical training for a year, he said. Maimane, who was in Port Elizabeth as part of his People’s Forum tour, said that he has communicated with various stakeholders in the business sector and the government concerning the project. He also emphasised that the Nelson Mandela Bay, City of Cape Town, Johannesburg, Tshwane have already come on board and they will be opening more internship programmes for local young people. Recognising that those are not the only opportunities young people need, he said that job training will also be provided. “However, that is not the only solution we have on the table. We also going to ensure that young across the country people are given a year on the programme across the country - wherein that year, young people will do skills training coupled with on the job training. “There’s going to be a year’s programme where skills artisans will learn practical skills,” he said. Maimane further said that rich people must pay for their education and the government must pay for poor students’ tertiary education. He highlighted possible ways that can safeguard employment in South Africa, which can only be delivered by the DA when voters give the party a chance to govern. “The only way we are able to create mass employment is to ensure that we build more factories so that we can use more manufacturing, enhance tourism  in this  community; we ensure that agriculture is stimulated and in key big sectors - we have  to have economic growth so that more people find work,” Maimane described. “The struggle in South Africa is a struggle for a job, which is not against an individual, but it’s about a job and therefore we must deal with economic growth.” He also took the opportunity and lambasted President Jacob Zuma. “Where there are elements of corruption and a criminal, who is in charge, you simply can’t try to dignify that and say that there is a plan in place through the State of the Nation. Our plans are much bigger than that and we need a complete change in South Africa.”  