 The Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), who last year saved Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, when he faced a motion of no confidence sponsored by the Patriotic Alliance (PA), now want to him to face their motion as lesson to the Democratic Alliance (DA). Speaking in the National Assembly, EFF leader, Julius Malema, said that the time for land expropriation without compensation was now and assured the African National Congress (ANC) it has the EFF's 6% vote if it decides to amend the Constitution to allow for land expropriation without compensation. He previously warned DA leader, Mmusi Maimane, that if the DA does not change its stance on land expropriation without compensation, they would lose the EFF's support in the Metro's. Malema said that after the 2016 Local Government Elections, the EFF gave the African National Congress (ANC) and the DA, who were negotiating with it over coalitions in the Metro's, a set of benchmarks and while the ANC has shown a willingness to meet the EFF's targets, the DA was drifting away from the EFF more and more. While the DA won the Nelson Mandela Bay election, it did not do so with a clear majority, hence it entered into coalition agreements with various parties - so as to help it keep the defeated ANC at bay. The EFF did not enter into the coalition but had so far sided with the DA in order to keep the ANC out of office. Malema went to lengths to explain why land redistribution was important and said that it was not a matter of party politics. He said the EFF wants a national consultation on the matter. "So, on the 6th of April, as I conclude... the day Jan van Riebeek arrived; the day of the formation of the PAC by [Robert] Sobukwe; and the hanging of Solomon Mahlangu - in honour of these people, and to show that our seriousness about the issue of land, we will be passing a motion of no confidence on the Mayor of PE as a warning shot to the DA," Malema said. It remains to been seen if the EFF will have enough votes to oust Trollip after it turned its back on the Nelson Mandela Bay opposition parties when they sought Trollip's removal. When the voting began, Trollip survived the motion of no confidence against him with 65 votes saying he should stay against 54 that wanted him gone. It became obvious that the EFF had voted with the DA-led coalition - lending it its desciding six votes. To remove Trollip, the EFF will now need the ANC's 50 votes as well as the votes of the minority parties - the Patriotic Alliance, United Front, African Independent Congress, and United Democratic Movement, who add a total of five votes. The DA has 57 seats in the 120 seat Council, while its coalition partners, the Congress of the People (COPE) and the African Christian Democratic Party have one seat each. 