 The Executive Mayor of the Nelson Mandel Bay Municipality, Athol Trollip announced on Friday that dam levels have risen slightly, which is good news for the City because it means there is a chance there won’t be a day zero. He was speaking in Motherwell, Port Elizabeth, where he had accompanied Democratic Alliance (DA) leader, Mmusi Maimane, who visited the Bay as part of his nationwide People’s Forum tour. Trollip said that the dam levels have increased after the unexpected rainfall and that the Churchill dam, which was down to 7% has since increased to 22%. He also announced that work is recommencing at the Nooitgedacht Project from Monday and that in the Kouga area, they are drilling boreholes for water – which will lessen the demand on the dams. “We have also increased the amount of water that has come out of Nooitgedacht. “The day before yesterday the Department of Water and Sanitation and Amathole Water Board confirmed that the money that was granted to us to complete phase three in the Nooitgedacht projects has been reaffirmed so work will start again on Monday next week,” he described. Trollip said that water from the boreholes dug in the Kouga area has long been used to water gardens and for swimming pools. “That water has been tested and we got very strong underground aquaria there, so NMB is not going to reach day zero,” the Mayor said. “The forecast for the next 12 months is that there will be around average rainfall, which is really good for us because it means that our dams will fill up. “Our biggest challenge is what if it doesn’t rain now for the next 6 months, which is highly impossible.” The Mayor said that the Metro has invested R750 million, which will be used to upgrade water infrastructure to prevent non-revenue loses and to put in new infrastructure. “In the NMB, we invested millions of rands in projects, which have been in planning for a very long time to prevent day zero,” Trollip described. He appealed to everyone in the NMB to still use water sparingly. 