 “Any attack on law enforcement officers will not be tolerated as it can be considered an attack against the state. We will not leave any stone unturned in order to bring those to book who are callously making themselves guilty of violence against our officers!” Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Metro Police Chief, Yolande Faro, issued this stern warning after a Metro Police constable was attacked while issuing a fine on Tuesday night. "Shortly afterwards contrary false claims were circulated on social media platforms. “Attacks on officers while they are fighting lawlessness and ensuring that our roads and suburbs are safer places will not deter any of us from doing our jobs. “Instead it will instil in us a greater sense of purpose to rid our roads of reckless and negligent drivers and to face criminals head-on," she described. “One of our constables was driving in Bertram Road where vehicles blocked the roadway. He requested them to move but they chose to deliberately disregard the lawful instruction of a law enforcement officer. “While in the driver’s seat of the patrol vehicle, our officer commenced with the issuing of a fine, when a fracas ensued. When walking back to his vehicle, the suspect tried to forcefully retrieve his license and allegedly pushed the officer." Faro said that the officer became alarmed when a crowd started to gather. "He made an emergency call for assistance and proceeded to drive off in the direction of our Bloemendal precinct. “The suspect, still attempting to retrieve his drivers license card, was ejected from the patrol vehicle. “Responding Metro Police officers assessed the situation and found the crowd to be hostile and all Metro Police officers were withdrawn from the scene and no fines issued,” she described. A case of assault, interfering with a member’s duty and failing to adhere to instruction of a Metro Police officer was opened at the Bethelsdorp South African Police Services. Advocate Keith Meyer, Executive Director: Safety and Security, said this attack is the second incident where law enforcement officers were endangered. “Two of our traffic officers were attacked on Monday afternoon while performing their duties and an official firearm was stolen. “We are requesting the community to come forward with information in all these cases to ensure that the culprits are brought to book,” Meyer said. Anyone with information can contact the South African Police Services at 10 111 or the Metro Police at 041 585 1555. 