 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, officially launched the Uitenhage Enterprise Development Centre, which is based at the Uitenhage Science Centre, in Uitenhage, on Monday. The centre is expected to create opportunities for local business-minded individuals. According to the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, the purpose of the centre is, amongst others, to serve as a one-stop shop for the provision of qualified small business services, improve the sustainability of small businesses and to serve as a catalyst for the establishment of more businesses. It said that before this centre opened doors, residents travelled long hours using a lot of money for 2/3 taxis just to get to municipal facilities in Port Elizabeth. Apparently, this is the third launch of a business hive, following the launch of one at Kwantu Towers, in the Port Elizabeth CBD, and the business place in Veeplaas. The business place will offer: -          Funding facilities, -          Tendering workshops, -          Use of meeting and training rooms, -          Business-to-business networking opportunities, -          Internet access for business and idea generation, -          Access to business opportunities, -          Relevant business information and resources, -          One-on-one consultations to help each entrepreneur work out what their next steps are to start or grow their business, -          Referrals to quality business development service providers, government resources and financial institutions, and -          Regular business information workshops on a wide range of business-related topics. Addressing delegates, Executive Mayor Trollip said that the aim of the centre is to address unemployment, especially among the youth by helping them create their own businesses instead of having them looking for jobs. The Mayor also said that when people visit the centre, they must not be promised heaven and earth but, must be taught how they can sustain their businesses. “They must understand what they must avoid to make their businesses successful and sustainable,” Trollip described. He emphasized that while most business seems to happen in Port Elizabeth, Uitenhage, as a town, has not been neglected by the municipality, hence the opening of the business hive. “This is about job creation, we want to encourage local entrepreneurs to create employment opportunities,” Trollip said. The municipality has partnered with the Business Place, ABSA, Nedbank, Standard Bank and the Eastern Cape Provincial Government with the aim to create job opportunities for the people of Nelson Mandela Bay. Trollip said the place will offer free services such as free Wi-Fi and computers for people to use the internet and a boardroom for small companies to use for exposure. As speaking at the event, Councillor Lungiswa Mlungwana, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality’ Member of the Mayoral Committee for Economic Development Tourism and Agriculture, thanked the Mayor for the opportunity brought to her town.  