 One positive consequence of the financial crash in 2008 was the rise in consumerism, especially in the property market, where buyers have steadily become more knowledgeable and more value conscious. However, this means that sellers now need to be much more informed too, more focused on the people most likely to buy their home and more able to tailor the price and marketing of their properties so that it really stands out to their target audience, says Berry Everitt, CEO of the Chas Everitt International property group. “And that would be a daunting prospect for many sellers except for the fact that they can quickly tap into all the knowledge they need by working with a qualified, experienced estate agent from a group like Chas Everitt International. “We call that ‘getting bright on your side’ and it means having access to a true property professional who understands your market, knows exactly how to showcase your home to those most likely to buy it, and can provide the latest pricing information for your area as well as exposure on the best national and international real estate marketing platforms.” Meanwhile, he says, the most important features to highlight to potential buyers of your home include: *A central location. Many potential buyers these days are trying to cut down on commuting, so if your home is centrally located close to offices and shops or is well served by public transport, don’t forget to say so. Even a position on a busy road can be an advantage to the right kind of buyer – such as a home business owner or a doctor, lawyer or accountant looking for a new location for their practice, especially if there are large grounds that can accommodate patient or client parking. *An excellent security system. Whether you live in a suburb or a gated estate, prospective buyers will all be interested in what security measures you have in place, so don’t forget to note items such as automated garage doors, electric fencing, a CCTV system, electronic beams, and motion-sensitive lights or alarms. *Proximity to good schools is a major issue for most parents these days and will be a draw-card for many potential buyers – provided of course that your home has the space to accommodate a family. If the property is close to a university, college and shops or a large local employer, you should also highlight that. *Eco-friendly features such as a solar geyser or heat pump, rainwater tanks, a pre-paid electricity meter and LED light fittings. These will especially appeal to young buyers who are increasingly environmentally conscious, as well as retirees looking to save on electricity bills. *Technology-friendly properties with features such as a smart-home security system or a fast fibre-optic internet connection will of course attract young buyers but are also likely to appeal to families and those who run home-based online businesses. *A new kitchen with modern finishes, especially for families who spend a lot of time at home or anyone who loves to cook. *A great floorplan that will really appeal to those buyers who follow the latest home design trends but will also help anyone who comes to view your property to feel “at home” and immediately start envisaging how they could live there. *A striking entertainment area, to entice those who love to socialise with family and friends on weekends and holidays. Many young professionals and families will appreciate am attractive braai area, lapa, pool or even a large, open-plan living room that gives them space to entertain. *A great view if you are lucky enough to have one. This is likely to have a universal appeal so make the most of it, especially on show days and during viewings. Open the curtains that show it off or set up an al fresco table on the patio or balcony that provides the best vista. *A gorgeous garden will really appeal to those looking for a more outdoor space, or to those with a “green thumb” who are looking for space to grow their own vegetables, herbs and spices. However, you must make sure your oasis is water-wise. 