 After a somewhat rocky start two Fridays ago, the critically-acclaimed yet controversial film, Inxeba – The Wound, is currently showing at local cinemas. That is despite the cast reportedly being placed in a place of safety after traditionalists denigrated the film for apparently showcasing the sacred rites to manhood that Xhosa men go through in the mountains. What goes on in the mountains has for centuries been a closely guarded secret that is only known by men, who had been part of the process. However, women and men from other tribes and cultures have always been curious about what happens there. Traditionalists also lambasted the film for its homosexuality tone. So, naturally, to satisfy their curiosity, many people including women, have been to local cinemas to see what the fuss is all about around the movie. “There’s nothing cultural about Inxeba; I watched it and the only thing that I think black men have a problem with is the portrayal of gays,” said 25-year-old Zintle Falaza*. She told RNEWS, she was among the first people to go and watch the film after NuMetro Cinemas decided to proceed with screening it after they had postponed it due to threats. “The strange thing is that at the cinema board, it is still ‘cancelled’, but online it’s on as part of the playlist. So, I went to check out what was going on because of curiosity,” she described. Falaza said that contrary to the claims by the traditionalists that the film shows secret rites, Inxeba only portrays how gay men are treated when they attend initiation school - not the actual sacred circumcision ritual. “The movie features two men in denial of who they truly are by hiding under tradition and behind married life. Black men dislike gay men and that is what the movie features,” she said. “It shows another side of initiation school, which is never mentioned because gay men do follow tradition, they get circumcised, but they are treated differently as some do not necessarily want to be referred to as men. For that reason, they get mistreated. “The movie only shows another side of a black man, who has a son and sends him to the circumcision school. He sees that his son is gay, however, he doesn’t want to admit it instead he instructs his son’s caregiver at the school to be firm with his son and blames it on the mother for being too soft to his son.” However, the caregiver, Xolani, is also gay and married, but he hides it - an advantage for him because he also understands the road taken in the initiation school. “Xhosa men dislike gay men only because they are running away from the truth within themselves,” she said. Falaza said that when she attended the screening, there was a huge turnout and she saw many young black men watching and laughing as the plot unfolded. “None showed any signs of offence in anyway.” The film continues to play at NuMetro cinemas and the outcome is still being monitored by the filmmakers and the theatres.  When contacted for comment, the Xhosa chief, who had promised hell in Port Elizabeth if the movie was screened said that he was not aware that the cinemas had now resumed screening the film.  *Not her real name.  