 The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape announced Tracy Weise as its candidate for the March by-election for the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Ward 1. With 13 061 registered voters, the Ward was represented by the DA and became vacant as a result of the somewhat unceremonious dismissal of former Councillor, Rashied Adams, from the party. The DA said that failure to pay his membership fee is what led to Adams' expulsion. Some Ward 1 residents said then that they felt cheated by Adams and would demand answers from him. A by-election is now slated for the 7th of March. According to Bobby Stevenson - DA Eastern Cape PE Southwest Constituency Leader, this was a highly contested nomination with 26 candidates applying for the vacancy. "Tracy has an excellent track record in the corporate environment, where she has excelled as a high achiever and leader and has won numerous business awards. She is currently the Dealer Principle and a Director of a major motor dealership. She is also a former Regional Sales Manager for the Eastern Cape and Free State for Volkswagen South Africa," Stevenson said. He said that Tracy grew up in the DA, comes from a highly respected political family, and is the daughter of Leon de Villiers, former Councillor and DA caucus leader in Nelson Mandela Bay (NMB). "She understands the needs of the voters in Ward 1 and lives in Kragga Kamma. Tracy also has two children who attend school in the ward," Stevenson said. "Tracy will in the future devote all her attention to the ward and will be a full time councillor. A Person of her calibre can greatly assist the DA-led coalition government to keep making progress in Nelson Mandela Bay." He added that her CV includes the following: Kelston Motor Group: Dealer Principal & Director; Volkswagen South Africa: Regional Sales Manager for the Eastern Cape and Free State; Ipsos: Senior Key Account Manager; Awards: Business Woman’s Association Corporate Category Winner (2015), MISA Regional Finalist (2015) and PE Business Chamber Top 40 under 40 (2015). It remains to be seen, who the other parties in the Bay will nominate to represent them. 