 The African National Congress (ANC) on Monday condemned 'in the strongest possible terms the assault' of protestors by a group of ANC supporters outside the ANC Headquarters, Chief Albert Luthuli House. While a group of ANC supporters gathered around Luthuli House apparently as protection for the party's National Working Committee (NWC). The NWC was summoned to an urgent special meeting and are speculated to be debating President Jacob Zuma's fate after the National Executive Committee (NEC) apparently reached an impasse with him over his exit. However, the Black First Land First  - although not within the structure of the ANC, also mobilised its members to march on Luthuli House apparently in support of President Zuma and calling on the NWC to let him serve the remainder of his term. In the end, a group of ANC supporters armed with sticks pounched on a truck that they suspected to be carrying Black First Land First supporters assaulting everyone. As everyone fled from the back of the truck, a older woman could be seen falling off the truck before she is kicked by the supporters. The driver was also assaulted as he drove off. It could not be verified if they were indeed Black First Land First supporters. Public Order Police officers had their full trying to pacify skirmishes between the Black First Land First marchers and the ANC supporters stationed around Luthuli House. There has been an outcry about the manner in which the ANC supporters assaulted the suspected Black First Land First supporters - especially the defenseless woman. "Regardless of what some may deem as provocation by the Black First Land First Movement, who intended to march to Luthuli House, there will never be any justification for scenes as the ones witnessed today," the party said in a short statement. "Disturbing in the extreme is the assault of women in so callous and dehumanizing manner." The party said that it was aclling upon on law enforcement agencies to act without fear or favor to bring the perpetrators to book. "Should these perpetrator be found to be members of the ANC, the relevant structures, must without any delay, institute disciplinary proceedings against them." 