 For a business that is on the rise, administrative processes, such as managing human resources, can often end up eating into productivity – and can place a heavy burden especially on smaller businesses with limited time and resources. Every entrepreneur wants to devote all their energies to growing their business – their bread and butter. Thus, instead of trying to do it all alone, outsourcing human resources functions is a good way to reduce the administrative workload so you or your staff can focus on your business’ objectives. If you have not given serious thought to outsourcing, the range of tasks that can be offloaded might surprise you. “At CTT our passion is people. Maintaining a sound relationship between all is imperative to the success of every business,” says Verna Chandler-Taylor, Director at Port Elizabeth-based CTT Group. “We have found that it is especially in small businesses where the owner often wears all the different hats that Employment Law and Human Resources are often given the least amount of attention, until the owner is faced with non-compliance, a disgruntled employee or possibly a disciplinary matter, CCMA or Bargaining Council case. “With our knowledge and expertise, we offer assistance and advice on Employment Law and HR Support functions to help keep the employee-employer relationship healthy.” Verna and her business partner, Michelle Tuck, can tailor make a package to suit your needs and budget, no matter how small your business. And you will be in good hands. Michelle is the owner of another successful HR agency, Staff Solutions. She has a BCom degree and majored in Industrial Psychology. She is currently also a Director at CTT Group and is an expert in Recruitment, Temporary Employment Services, Background screening and Verifications. Verna herself has focused her career on Employment Law and Human Resources. She is a Skills Development facilitator and holds a Postgraduate Diploma in Labour Law Practise. She is an expert in Legal Compliance, Health and Safety, Training and Development, Personnel Administration and Labour Relations. “We may conduct a once off audit to assess your needs and identify any gaps or discrepancies and provide you with a personalised report,” adds Michelle. She says that their ‘Human Capital’ management services are geared to maximise productivity to achieve optimal profitability. Thus, CTT Group’s services include Employment Law; Human Resources; Skills Development Facilitating, Training and Development; Recruitment; Background Screening; Verifications; Psychometric Testing; Payroll and Legal Compliance. With one service provider responsible for a range of your HR needs, you will not only spend less time on administration, but less time managing vendor relationships as well. To learn more about what the CTT Group can do for your business, call 041 007 0620 or visit 32 Albany Gardens, Albany Road, in Central, Port Elizabeth. Alternatively visit them online at www.cttgroup.co.za today. Image: YOU'RE IN SAFE HANDS... Left to right - CTT Group Directors, Michelle Tuck and Verna Chandler-Taylor. 