 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral Committee Member for Economic Development, Tourism and Agriculture, Cllr Andrew Whitfield has urged tourists and local businesses to continue saving water and support water restrictions whilst sustaining tourism numbers to the city as the sector is a major contributor to the local economy. According to Cllr Whitfield, the water restrictions are part of the contingency plans put in place not only in Nelson Mandela Bay but a variety of provinces as this is now a national crisis. “We remain open for business however the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality is currently facing water shortages and we encourage all our visitors to hep us to save water. The levels of our supply dams have reached an all-time low of just above 24 percent, the latest dam levels as can be viewed on www.nelsonmandelabay.gov.za/Residents currently reflect Kouga at 9,95%; Churchill at 18,97%;  Impofu at 43,71%; Loerie at 83, 71% and Groendal on 51,80%,” he described. Whitfield said that the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality has implemented many strategies to prevent the city from completely exhausting all the water supplies and some of the contingencies include: The Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality continues to encourage tourists to visit and Businesses to invest in Nelson Mandela Bay. Through implementing water-wise practices and being conscious of the natural resources visitors, investors and locals can continue to experience the destination’s offerings without aggravating consequences on an already severe situation, said Cllr Whitfield. “As Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality we are confident that we will not reach ‘Day Zero’ and we will continue to support and welcome tourism and investors into our city in order to maintain economic growth and contribute to job creation opportunities. "Water security is key for investors and travellers alike and that is why our  contingency plans have been implemented and international media and travellers need to be aware of these to mitigate any negative outcomes or anxiety that could cause a decline in tourism and loss of potential investments. Travellers and Investors should be aware that they will not exacerbate the current situation” said Cllr Whitfield. “Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism and Business Chambers will endeavour to support industry to keep it updated regularly on the situation. "Nelson Mandela Bay Tourism will endeavour to keep stakeholders and visitors informed on Responsible Tourism practices to prevent those that wish to cancel travel plans to the destination or to prevent future travellers from being deterred due to the water crisis.” 