 Schneider Electric has released HyperPod, a rack ready system designed to deploy IT in increments of 8 to 12 racks, addressing the demand for greater computer capacity and flexible data centre architectures in today’s fast paced digital world. Thanks to this rapid pace of technology, data centres are primed for significant growth over the next few years. Mobile computing, the Internet of Things (IoT) and cloud computing are driving significant demand in the data centre industry. A recent Cushman & Wakefield report predicted annual growth in the data centre industry to be 12-14% over the next two to five years. Part of Schneider Electric’s EcoStruxure for Data Center architecture, HyperPod’s innovative design supports all of today’s rack types. Its pod style architecture, with integrated power, cooling, cabling, software management and containment, enables racks of IT equipment to roll into place, similar to that of a docking station, without the complexity and time associated with traditional IT deployments. “Our customers wanted a streamlined and more cost-efficient way to deploy IT, one that keeps up with the pace of business, and we listened. With deployment times up to 21 percent faster, HyperPod delivers 15 to 20 percent savings in time and costs over traditional approaches,” explains Riaan de Leeuw, VP for IT Division - Anglophone Africa, Schneider Electric. “In support of HyperPod, the company is offering a free online rule-based designer that makes it easy for clients and partners to build and customise their pod quickly, with a variety of options, reducing overall costs, decreasing time to market and enabling partners to increase their value to customers. Options include containment only, mini and large cantilevers, cable trays, distribution cabinets, multiple roof options, windows, blanking panels, doors, lighting kits and power raceways. HyperPod can be deployed as a single pod or in extended pod configurations. Additionally, on-site assembly training and services are also available. “Data centre colocation revenue growth has outpaced top-line B2B ICT revenue growth, in the process emerging as one of the hottest growth segments in the African ICT market. Available data centre white space has doubled over the past five years and has been growing by an average of around 15% annually. Schneider Electric is fully prepared for such growth, with its global infrastructure and local engagement,” concludes de Leeuw. Schneider Electric’s EcoStruxure is an open, interoperable, IoT-enabled system architecture delivering enhanced value around safety, reliability, efficiency, sustainability and connectivity for customers. It leverages technologies in IoT, mobility, sensing, cloud, analytics and cybersecurity to deliver Innovation at every level including connected products, edge control and apps, analytics & services. It has been deployed in 450,000+ installations, with the support of 9,000 system integrators, connecting over 1 billion devices.  