 As rumours make rounds about President Jacob Zuma agreeing to step down if a list of demands is met, the African National Congress (ANC) is, however, remaining mum about what is happening behind closed negotiations over the beleaguered President's future. On Tuesday night, the party announced that the Special National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting that had been initially scheduled for Wednesday night has been postponed. "This postponement follows fruitful and constructive engagements, on various issues, held earlier today by the President of the ANC, Comrade Cyril Ramaphosa and the President of the Republic, Comrade Jacob Zuma," the party said. "The NEC will now meet, as scheduled, in a Special NEC meeting on the 17th February." Meanwhile, talks between Ramaphosa and Zuma are set to continue. On Tuesday, the Speaker of the National Assembly, Baleka Mbete, announced that the 2018 State of the Nation Address (SONA) had been postponed. "The African National Congress notes and respects the decision of the President of the Republic of South Africa in consultation with the Presiding Officers of Parliament to postpone the Joint Sitting of the National Assembly and the National Council of Provinces; intended for the tabling of the State of the Nation Address," the ANC said. "We understand that this decision was arrived at based on a shared understanding that there is a need to deliver this important address in a conducive political environment." It added that it maintains its commitment to providing leadership to the Republic of South Africa in a manner that reinforces confidence in public institutions such as Parliament. "It is for this reason that the ANC Caucus, represented by the Chief Whip, in the meeting of the Presiding Officers and all political parties, also motivated for the postponement of the scheduled Joint Sitting in light of the growing anxieties in the public domain," the party said. "The NEC will also reflect on this decision by the President and the Presiding Officers to postpone the State Of the Nation Address and provide direction on how the ANC will assist their efforts to create a conducive political environment as they intend." 