 Specialist legal firm, Goldberg & de Villiers Incorporated remains at the pinnacle of legal services in the Nelson Mandela Bay and this year, the Port Elizabeth-based law firm, is celebrating 85 years in business – a great achievement by any measure. Since their establishment in 1933, Goldberg & de Villiers continues to provide personal service, practical advice and tailor-made proactive solutions in matters of the law. RNEWS sat down with Adri Ludorf, Managing Director at Goldberg & de Villiers, to hear more about the changes and growth that Goldberg & de Villiers over the years.  “This milestone gives us the opportunity to look back with pride and a great sense of accomplishment at the history and heritage that has shaped us since 1933 when our founder, Attorney Mannie Goldberg, who was later joined in a partnership by Eric de Villiers, launched the practice,” she described. In 1999, the Goldberg & de Villiers partnership became an incorporated company in terms of the Companies Act, and the partners became shareholders in Goldberg & de Villiers Incorporated. “Initially the firm focused mainly on litigation, but with time, the scope and expertise of the firm broadened to include a wide spectrum of legal services,” she said. Adri explained that the firm, today, provides expert legal advice on matters such as commercial and corporate law, human resources and labour law, property law, conveyancing services, administration of estates, fiduciary services, estate planning and dispute resolution, litigation, arbitration and mediation. “The firm also gradually expanded its footprint and now represents various national and international companies,” she added. The company employs a total staff component of 50 lawyers, candidate attorneys, paralegals, secretarial and support staff. “As much as Goldberg & de Villiers might be broadening its footprint, the firm remains a proudly Port Elizabeth and Eastern Cape based law firm with strong ties in the local business community,” described Adri. She said that Goldberg & de Villiers remains focused on the future - from the vantage point of having 85 years in the legal field, and is confidently building on the values and accomplishments of its current and past shareholders. “We might be 85 years old, but we have no plans of slowing down.” 