 An off-duty police Sergeant stationed at KwaNobuhle Police Station, in Port Elizabeth, is commended for his bravery when he single-handedly disrupted a robbery in progress at the shopping complex in Matanzima Street, KwaNobuhle, in Port Elizabeth, on Wednesday night around 18:00. "This member did not hesitate when he saw a robbery in progress at a local shopping complex, he acted on his instincts when he saw three armed suspects running out of a local liquor store. "He put himself on duty and drew his service pistol, so as to engage with the suspects. Unfortunately one of the suspects saw his actions and alerted his accomplices who then shot at his direction," said police spokesperson, Sergeant Majola Nkohli. "The member retaliated and a shoot-out ensued. One of the suspect, believed to be wounded was dragged to a black motor vehicle that was used to flee the scene by his accomplices. Neither a member nor shoppers were injured during the incident." Sergeant Nkohli said that the suspects managed to steal an undisclosed amount of cash from the store. The Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lieutenant General Liziwe Ntshinga, has issued a stern warning to criminals and urged community support in fighting violent crimes. This warning comes after the launch of Operation Fiela II, where she said, “Police will be reclaiming the space from criminals, and also stamping the authority of the State that message meant that criminals must start running away or face the full might of the law.  Police are all out and criminals will be arrested.” "This off-duty police sergeant is commended for his patriotism and dedication in fighting crime," said Sgt Nkohli. "An investigation team has been launched to trace the suspects." The SAPS is urging anyone with information about the incident, or the whereabouts of the suspects to contact the investigating officer, Sergeant Andile Gusha at 082 441 8139 or Crime Stop 08600 10111. In a separate incident, on Wednesday, at around 23:50, a police patrol vehicle in Wolwefontein spotted eight sheep on the roadside with their legs tied along route R329. "The branded sheep were handed to the owner after they were positively identified as his property," Sergeant Nkohli described. "Police are investigating a case under the contravention of the Stock Theft Act, so far arrests have been made." 