 The Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape on Wednesday condemned 'in the strongest terms' the killing of five members of the SAPS in Ngcobo in the early hours of Wednesday morning during a brazen robbery at the Engcobo police station. The gang apparently also killed an off-duty soldier after he went outside to see what was happening. "We offer our sincere condolences to the families of these policemen," Bobby Stevenson (MPL), Shadow MEC for Safety and Security. "The SAPS are our front line against criminal elements. They are what stands between us and anarchy.  The SAPS are a key element in ensuring safer communities. "No stone must be left unturned in hunting down these criminals and ensuring that they are brought to justice." He said that the Eastern Cape stands with the SAPS in this time of great sorrow and grief. Meanwhile, the DA's Shadow Minister of Police, Zakhele Mbhele, is expected to visit Engcobo on Thursday Engcobo police station in a bid to find solutions to the challenges faced by this station which is an essential component to fighting crime. "The DA is saddened by this act of senseless violence, and wishes to convey our deepest condolences to the families of the victims," Mbhele said. "This tragedy speaks directly to the chronic lack of much-needed resources at our police stations, which leads to a complete inability to fight the unacceptably high levels of crime. "This speaks to the need to ensure the full capacitation and professionalisation of the police service in our crime-ridden communities. "If the police themselves are no longer safe, who must South Africans turn to for protection?" He added that the DA cannot sit by idly and watch on while our communities live under siege due to the government’s lack of political will to combat the scourge of crime. "Tomorrow, the Leader of the DA in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature, Bobby Stevenson MPL and I,  will visit the Engcobo police station in a bid to find solutions to the challenges faced by this station which is an essential component to fighting crime," Mbhele said. "It is important that Minister Mbalula gets to the bottom of this incident and reports back to South Africa on what the investigation and what steps are being taken to keep the police and our communities safe." 