 Various operations were held in different parts of Port Elizabeth on Friday morning as part of the launch of the second phase of the national crime-fighting blitz, dubbed Operation Fiela II, in the City and yielded several successes. Operation Fiela means to sweep in SeSotho, and while the first phase that was launched in 2015 had a sharp focus on illegal migrants, the second phase is primarily targeting all forms of crime and corruption. According to police spokesperson, Captain Khaya Tonjeni, the operations that began at 22:00 on Thursday night until Friday morning were done in cooperation with other departments like Provincial Traffic, Metro police, Home Affairs, Department of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries (DAFF), Crime lntelligence and K9. He said that police in the Mount Road cluster raided several locations for wanted suspects and arrested 59 suspects. While several suspects were subpoenaed for court appearances in the coming days, 12 of the suspects wanted by police were found to be already in prison. "At Kinkelbos, two suspects were arrested for possession of dagga weighting 30kg and a case of possession of dagga was opened," he described. "Meanwhile, a 35-year-old suspect was after he was found in possession of two sheep he could not provide documents of positive identification. "He was charged for possession of suspected stolen goods. He is expected to appear in court soon." Captain Tonjeni said that an imported vehicle, Honda was confiscated after the owner failed to produce relevant documentation. "One suspect was arrested by Customs officials and his journey was discontinued. "A 34-year-old Pakistan national was arrested for being in possession of illegal cigarettes (Chicago, Savanna and Master) valued at R30 000 and driving an unroadworthy vehicle," he added. Captain Tonjeni said that at least 120 vehicles were stopped at the stop and search. In Kabega Park, 25 fines were issued to the value of R19 000. No arrests were made. At Maqanda Street in Kwazakele, 158 people and 88 vehicles were searched. No arrests were made. Captain Tonjeni said that along the R335, at least 520 persons were searched as well as 348 vehicles. "14 fines were issued to the value of R26 000," he added. "Meanwhile in PE Central, a second hands goods operation was held to check legal compliance to operating rules. "This operation was undertaken with the assistance of the Red Ants and the Sheriffs office." 