 The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape says it is 'deeply concerned' by the delay in the 'transitional talks' between the President of the Republic, Jacob Zuma, and African National Congress (ANC) President, Cyril Ramaphosa. This follows the SACP Eastern Cape's first plenary session of the 8th Congress Provincial Executive Committee (PEC), which was held on Friday at Bisho. "It is our considered view that, this delay is very unfair to the entire nation whilst organizations have been put aside with the cancelation of the African National Congress (ANC) National Executive Committee (NEC) meeting and none inclusion of the alliance as a whole," said Siyabonga Mdodi, SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson. "We now depend entirely on two leaders and the rest of the leaders and the people are spectators. The current situation has created an unnecessary state of anxiety and uncertainty, it is in this context that we are of the firm view that the matter ought to be expediated in a manner that seeks to safeguard the unity of the people. "We reaffirm the position of the SACP that the ANC NEC must recall President Zuma if he cannot voluntarily resign, as he has donated with the sovereignty of our country." Mdodi said that the PEC added its voice in welcoming the outcomes of the ANC 54th National Conference held in December 2017 and saluted the ANC for successful January 8th Rally held in East London in the Eastern Cape, which contributed in building foundation for the restoration of the people’s trust to the movement. "The PEC is of the firm view that, for the SACP, this period requires the SACP to assert its independence and implement its 14th National Congress resolutions including the contestation of state and popular power," he added. "It is important that we never pin our hopes to an individual leader of an organisation at a given moment but to always pin our hopes to the people and organisations." Eskom loan from the PIC He said that the PEC also rejected the use of workers’ money by the  Public Investment Corporation (SOC) to bail out Eskom. "We are of the firm that instead of this move the relevant security organs like asserts forfeiture unit must move with speed get back all that was looted by the Gupta linked criminal network," Mdodi said. "The PEC views the role of State Owned Enterprises (SOE) as key for driving a second more radical phase of our transition and its collapse will have dire consequences to the people. "On the planned extension CPS contract by Social Development, the PEC also expressed its rejection to the move as it is designed to delaying the use of Post Bank as a preferred service provider of social grants." Eastern Cape province Mdodi added that the meeting also expressed its concern about the recent media reports and public pronouncements of planned reshuffles in both provincial government and local municipalities without engagement with alliance partners way before even the meeting of the Alliance Political Council  - that is officials of all alliance components. "The PEC called for a meaningful consultation and a comprehensive assessment of the performance of departments, municipalities and comrades deployed. These developments underline the urgency of a re-configured alliance, for a new way of doing things and start to treat each other in the alliance as equal partners," he described. "The meeting emphasised that the reconfiguration of the alliance should find expression from below for it to have a true meaning. "The SACP wishes to caution our long-standing ally, the African National Congress of implementing changes in the political leadership in governance after each elective conference of the ANC. "If this goes on without diligent political management of such transition(s) it will give birth to intense leadership contestations in the ANC, which will be contestations of cabinet positions than leadership positions." Matatiele incorporation into KZN Mdodi said that the PEC also reiterated its rejection of the incorporation of Matatiele to the province of KwaZulu Natal as it will have dire consequences for the province. "To this end the meeting committed to mobilise the people against the move and as the SACP we will be making a comprehensive submission to the coming public hearings in this regard." 