 It's official, the African National Congress' (ANC) highest decision-making body, the National Executive Committee (NEC), on Tuesday afternoon announced that it had decided to recall its deployee, Jacob Zuma, in accordance with Rule 12.2.21.2 of the ANC Constitution, which accords the NEC the authority to recall any public representative. The NEC was addressing the media at the ANC headquarters at Luthuli House in Johanneburg. According to ANC Secretary General, Ace Magashule, the press briefing was called to reflect on the current situation as it pertains to the future President Zuma. "The NEC received a report from the Officials on their engagement with President Zuma. These engagements had been informed by the commitment to pursue firstly the interest of the country and the ANC and the determination to handle the matter with utmost dignity," he said. "The NEC noted the report of the Officials that the President had agreed in principle to resign and had proposed time frames extending from three to six months." He added that while appreciating President Zuma’s proposal, the NEC noted that South Africa is going through a period of uncertainty and anxiety as a result of the unresolved matter of transition. "Further that this uncertainty and anxiety will erode the renewed hope and confidence among South Africans since the 54th National Conference of the ANC," Magashule said. "The National Executive Committee firmly believes that this situation requires decisive leadership in order to steer our country towards greater levels of unity, renewal and inclusive economic growth. "We are determined to restore the integrity of the public institutions, create political stability and urgent economic recovery." He said that some of the matters that the NEC are contending with are "the opportunistic manoeuvers by the opposition in parliament including motions of no confidence in the President, calls for dissolution for parliament and other desperate acts". "The ANC’s approach to this matter has, at all times, been informed by the interests of the South African people. "Sensitive of the need to handle this matter with dignity, the NEC once again sent a delegation to brief the President of the Republic about the need to shorten the timeframes so that this matter is speedily resolved," he described. "The NEC received feedback from the delegation that the President of the Republic did not accede to a shorter time frame." He said that besides recalling Zuma, the NEC further decided that there should be continuing interaction between the officials of the ANC and the President of the Republic. "The decision by the NEC to recall its deployee was taken only after exhaustive discussion on the impact such a recall would have on the country, the ANC and the functioning of government," Magashule added. "It is critical that South Africans are united around the task of growth, job creation and economic transformation. "This decision will be communicated publicly and through appropriate forums to all structures of the ANC, Alliance Structures and all the Mass Democratic Formations. "All necessary parliamentary processes that arise from this decision will now ensue." He said that on Monday night, he went with Deputy President, Cyril Ramaphosa, who is the new ANC President, to meet Zuma "to convey that we were not agreeing with the time of 3-6 months". "He was still up and about, our discussions were cordial. We eadvised that the NEC was to finalize the matter last night. "Cde Zuma pleaded that given the challenges confronting the ANC, that the ANC NEC reconsider the time frame. The NEC felt that we couldn't wait for that period and that President Ramaphosa needed to take over and ensure a smooth transition," he described. "If you listen to President Ramaphosa speak, he always emphasises that radical economic transformation is a resolution of #ANC54. Our trajectory on radical economic transformation will not change, regardless of who is leading the ANC. "The decision of the #ANCNEC to recall Cde Zuma is final. It can't and will not change. We will treat Cde Zuma with dignity and we will not humiliate him. "It's important to note that this is the decision of the #ANCNEC as a collective, not any other grouping. We are expecting that Comrade Zuma will respond on Wednesday." More to follow... 