 The R9 billion investment that the South African National Roads Agency SOC Limited (SANRAL) has put aside for the green fields portion of the N2 Wild Coast Road Project in the Eastern Cape will go a long way in improving the lives of ordinary people in the Mpondoland area of the province, says SANRAL’s Craig McLachlan. The N2 Wild Coast Road Project will be a high mobility route that will link the Eastern Cape and KwaZulu-Natal provinces, significantly lowering transportation time and costs and improving accessibility to a large part of the Eastern Cape. It will be a catalyst for sustainable local economic and social development. “SANRAL will continue on its endeavours to be a developmental partner for the O.R. Tambo and Alfred Nzo district municipalities, and we will continue to keep the different stakeholders in the region abreast of the project’s developments,” he said. Speaking to leaders of government, business, traditional leaders and community organisations, SANRAL convened its flagship Taking SANRAL to the People programme in Lusikisiki to share information and also forge partnerships with the affected communities and other key stakeholders on the project. The roads agency will open a regional office in nearby Flagstaff. “We make every effort to promote transformation by ensuring that SMMEs are exposed to work experiences that were previously not possible,” says Mbulelo Peterson, SANRAL’s Southern Regional Manager. The opening of the Flagstaff office will make it easier for SANRAL to be reachable to the communities of O.R. Tambo and Alfred Nzo district municipalities. Flagstaff was identified as the most central area for the entire green fields section of the project. That also means local SMMEs do not have to travel to Port Elizabeth to collect and submit tenders. “The Flagstaff office will be the point where local people can contact SANRAL directly. There will also be a tender office where tenders for SMMEs can be collected and submitted and tender briefings can be held. There will also be temporary work space and meeting facilities for project managers attending project meetings and site visits,” adds Peterson. Working together with the provincial government and municipalities, SANRAL continues to upgrade roads that provide infrastructure and enable agro-industrial and tourism development for the Eastern Cape.  