 The South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape on Tuesday said that it has noted with concern reports about the removal of Mzoleli Mrara, its Provincial Chairperson as the Chief Whip of the African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape Provincial Legislature at Bhisho. The news comes after ANC Provincial Chairperson, Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, and Deputy Chairperson, Mlungisi Mvoko, were sworn in as Members of the Provincial Legislature (MPLs) on Monday. They replaced Nomvuzo Mlombile-Cingo and Noxolo Abraham Ntantiso, who have been redeployed to other tasks by the movement. Mrara has reportedy swapped positions with ANC Provincial Executive Committee member, Fundile Skade‚ who previously chaired the Education Portfolio Committee. "Whilst we recognise that he was as appointed as the ANC Chief Whip whilst serving as the ANC Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) and Provincial Working Committee (PWC) member, but he remains a Provincial Leader of the South African Communist Party," said Siyabonga Mdodi, SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson. "We would have expected a meaningful consultative process that involves all alliance components not least the SACP. "The manner in which the matter has been handled is rather insensitive and does not contribute in building a strong alliance. "It further reinforce our 14th National Congress resolution for a reconfigured alliance, and for the SACP to assert its independence in action including actively contesting state and popular power through  a ballot." Mdodi said that they were calling upon the ANC, as their ally, to convene an urgent alliance meeting "so that we find a constructive way of dealing with unfolding developments in the province than hearing about them in the media". "We wish to reiterate the view we expressed in our last PEC meeting, that we must all as alliance partners treat each other as equal partners with mutual respect, and that would require the leader of the alliance to assess the impact of its decisions on its allied formations," he added. 