 The South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd (SANRAL) Southern Region (SR) in partnership with Vukani Multi Sport Club (VMSC) embarked on a sanitary towel drive in Port Elizabeth. Twenty-six grade eight girls at Ndzondelelo Senior Secondary School in Zwide were identified as beneficiaries of this campaign and each received a year’s supply of sanitary towels, as part of the first leg of SANRAL SR’s and VMSC’s drive to donate personal hygiene products to girls from disadvantaged backgrounds around Nelson Mandela Bay. Dan Ngcape, principal of Ndzondelelo Senior Secondary School said the school served very poor areas including Soweto-On-Sea, Zwide and Veeplaas. “This is a quantile three school located in a very poverty-stricken area. A R10 to you will mean something different to the children at the school. The contributions made by SANRAL and Vukani Multi Sport Club are a huge deal to the kids. These kids will not forget this day,” said Ngcape. Currently it can cost between R10 and R60 for a pack of 10 sanitary towels, depending on which brand is purchased. The girls mentioned a number of adversities they faced when it comes to addressing their menstrual cycle such as making use of a towel or toilet paper or even sometimes having to cut a sock to prevent blood from dripping onto their panties. “Our national office had a sanitary towel drive last year and identified various schools where we wanted to donate sanitary towels to high school girls,” Michelle Ah Shene, SANRAL SR marketing coordinator said. “Ndzondelelo Senior Secondary School was selected after we were approached by Vukani club to partner with them on the project. The school is also located close to the R75 project in Port Elizabeth that SANRAL is currently working on. “Supplying a smaller group of girls with a year’s supply of sanitary towels will make more of an impact. The girls will benefit over a longer period of time instead of just receiving a month’s supply of pads,” Ah Shene said. Wonga Mfula president of VMSC said the club’s social investment committee identified Ndzondelelo Senior Secondary School. “It is our responsibility to give back to society and let people know wellness is important”. “Apart from the provision of training programmes in construction works, building roads and bridges SANRAL also focuses on developing human capital through educational programmes at tertiary institutions, providing internships for trainees and awarding bursaries and scholarships to university students and high school learners,” said Ah Shene. Image: Twenty-six grade eight learners from Ndzondelelo Senior Secondary School in Zwide, Port Elizabeth received a year’s supply of sanitary towels donated by the South African National Roads Agency Soc Ltd (SANRAL) Southern Region (SR) in partnership with Vukani Multi Sport Club (VMSC). 