 “A catalyst for a growth journey.” This is the impact winning the Regional Business Achiever Awards (RBAA) from the Businesswomen’s Association’s (BWA) PE had on one of last year’s winners. Winner in the RBAA Government Category, Annette Lovemore, who is also a Member of the Mayoral Committee of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality, said she was nominated by someone, who she didn’t know. “I was rather taken aback that someone had noticed my work and had been impressed enough to go to the trouble of nominating me. As I went through the assessment process before the finals, I tried to find what that person had seen in me. So often we underrate ourselves. "I realised I had been doing that, to a serious degree. The realisation has forced me to take stock and action. I can assure you that I believe I am more worthy of the award now than when I won it; and I will be even more worthy next year, and the next,” Lovemore said. Having such a positive experience from winning the award, Lovemore has nominated someone else for this year’s awards. “I have honoured the journey by nominating, for a 2018 award, a woman in government who is outstanding, but does not always get the recognition she deserves. I will watch her journey, and the journeys of the other 2018 nominees, with interest and pleasure,” Lovemore said.  Image: Winner in the RBAA Government Category, Annette Lovemore, who is also a Member of the Mayoral Committee of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Nominations will soon close for the 2018 RBAA, which recognises women entrepreneurs and professionals for the crucial part they play in the economy and the city. Last year’s winner in the RBAA Corporate Category, Nomhle “Chinese” Tys, from Royal Haskoning DHV (Pty) Ltd, said being a winner broadened her network. “It raised my profile and the company profile as well. It also gave me a platform to share my own journey and learn from others. Making my submission afforded me time to reflect, and look back on what I achieved, what could I have done better and how to move forward. The BWA must continue to recognise women achievers. The community is dying to have role models and the youth needs to be inspired,” Tys said. Nominations for the awards are open until February 23, with the awards being divided into six categories: emerging entrepreneur, entrepreneur, social entrepreneur, corporate, professional and government. Entrants must be nominated, but they do not have to be BWA members. Three finalists will be chosen in each category by an independent panel of judges, after which the winners will be announced at a gala dinner at the Boardwalk Hotel and Convention Centre on June 21. Nomination forms and further information on the nomination criteria are available on the BWA website at www.bwasa.co.za Main image: Last year’s winner in the RBAA Corporate Category, Nomhle “Chinese” Tys, from Royal Haskoning DHV (Pty) Ltd, said being a winner broadened her network.  