 WITH only a few days to go before nominations close, the Businesswomen’s Association (BWA) PE is calling on the local business community to nominate deserving women in business in Nelson Mandela Bay for this year’s Regional Business Achievers Awards (RBAA). The prestigious RBAA annually recognises women entrepreneurs and professionals for the crucial part they play in the economy and the city of Nelson Mandela Bay. Khula Kids Playschool Director and Principal, Kelly Ferreira, who was the winner in the RBAA Emerging Entrepreneur Category last year, said winning this award after starting her school in 2016 was not only a career-changing experience, but it also changed her life. “The recognition I received through the award catapulted my status as an edu-preneurial motivator and speaker and brought with it a number of opportunities to turn my passion into a sustainable source of income. This award set me and my business forth on a journey along a path of personal fulfilment, reward and adventure. It has fuelled my enthusiasm to continue adapting, developing and rolling out new aspects of my entrepreneurial vision,” Ferreira said. Nominations for the 2018 Regional Business Achievers Awards close this Friday [February 23], with the awards being divided into six categories: emerging entrepreneur, entrepreneur, social entrepreneur, corporate, professional and government. Entrants must be nominated, but they do not have to be BWA members. Three finalists will be chosen in each category by an independent panel of judges, after which the winners will be announced at a gala dinner at the Boardwalk Hotel and Convention Centre on June 21. Entries are welcome for women in Nelson Mandela Bay and surrounding areas, with previous finalists having come from as far afield as the Garden Route. Nomination forms and further information on the nomination criteria are available on the BWA website at www.bwasa.co.za Image: Winner in the RBAA Government Category, Annette Lovemore, who is also a Member of the Mayoral Committee of Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality  