 A Joe Slovo tuck shop owner, Khanyile Twatwa, couldn’t believe his luck after winning a brand new Nissan NP200 bakkie, which was handed over to him on Wednesday at the Megasave Cash and Carry along Stanford Road, in Port Elizabeth. The owner of Emaqangeni Tuck Shop in Joe Slovo, was one of thousands of small business owners to enter the national competition to win one of 20 brand new bakkies, courtesy of the Coca-Cola Beverages competition. The national competition, which ran for three months, was open to the public, but aimed at small business owners, with the hope that winning a bakkie could assist them with running their business. Sales Manager for Eastern Cape Wholesalers, Sean Everett, said “This was a national competition, all that customers had to do was purchase five cases of Coca-Cola products from a specific wholesaler, in order to enter and possibly win”. Spaza shop owner and winner of the competition, Khanyile Twatwa, said “I entered the competition at Megasave Cash and Carry and then they contacted me and said I had won a bakkie. I can’t explain how I feel- very happy and excited I guess”. “The bakkie will help me a lot with my business, such as getting stock for my shop” he added. The competition has been running successfully for the past three years and is targeted at small business owners, such as spaza shop owners. Entrants have to be a resident of South Africa and over the age of 18 to qualify as a winner. Winners were selected using a random draw, with five of this years winners coming from the KwaZulu-Natal and Eastern Cape Provinces. CCBSA Regional Strategic Wholesale Manager, Nosihle Mthethwa said “As a company, we understand that we can only grow if our customers grow.” “The main aim was to drive volume in the wholesale market, while also empowering small businesses by giving them a chance to win the tools they need to succeed in their business,” said Mthethwa. Manager of Megasave Cash and Carry, Rikesh Gajjar, commented “Anyone can enter as long as they buy 5 cases of Coca-Cola beverages. There is also another competition to win a transport trailer, that will be starting soon.” Image: Left to right- Sean Everett (Sales Manager for EC Wholesalers), Khanyile Twatwa (Competition Winner), Nosihle Mthethwa (CCBSA Regional Strategic Wholesale Manager) and Rikesh Gajjar (Manager of Megasave Cash and Carry). 