 Technology is playing a huge part of our everyday lives and since everything has become faster, instant and accessible it is expected that this is also the case with learning. Information has become so ready available via internet and social media that it hardly seems worth attending formal training anymore as no training provider can claim that they own the “Best” knowledge on a specific topic. What is Blended Learning? Blended Learning is a combination of learning activities customised and tailor to the individual needs of the learner. Through Live Webinar training delivery, online assessments, interactive learner discussions & support and workplace activities designed to develop practical competence. Through Blended Learning, companies are able to meet all learner needs, ensuring the most effective learning experience for each learner within a diverse group of learners. Why use Blended Learning? Improve Learners Engagement and Motivation - Learners are more empowered and take more responsibility for decisions associated with learning endeavours. The use of information and communication technologies has been found to improve student attitudes towards learning. More Cost effective - With classroom training employees must attend the training at a designated venue, whether this is onsite or offsite. Expenses include, catering, manual costs, accommodation, facilitator fees. For offsite training the employees must travel to the venue, which is an extra expense to the company for transport. In some instances the facilitator must fly in from another region. With Blended Learning the Employees can attend training from the comfort of their computer, laptop, Ipad or Smart Phone at their desk or from Home. Flexible- The Company can provide suitable training dates to attend the training. The facilitator can incorporate a variety of Multimedia in the training, allowing each Learner to grasp the concepts at their own pace and approach the material from different angles Convenient - Learning can take place from anywhere and is not limited to a single location.For Accredited training, all Assessments are submitted online and turnaround time for feedback is faster. More effective than formal Training - Learners are able to transfer learning in terms of knowledge and skills, from one situation to another; Facilitators promote self-directed learning through dialogue with learners, securing resources, evaluating outcomes, and promoting critical thinking. Blended Learning Hurdles Dependant on Technical Resources - Learners are required to have a reliable internet line available (at least 3mbps). It is also advised that learners use uncapped internet connections as Webinar attendance might use large amounts of data. The Learners must have access to a computer to complete the assessments. Distractions - It is further advisable that learners attend webinar sessions in a quite environment free of distractions. We found that learners sitting at the office is sometimes interrupted by other employees not grasping that they are in a training session. IT Knowledge – The learners must be proficient with computer skills in order to attend the training. If your company would like to explore the possibilities of Blended Learning, LabourNet has various Facilitation Methodologies available to present the learning to the learners in an effective way based on the target audience requirements. For more information call LabourNet on 041 373 2994  or email jgroenewald@labournet.com or visit www.labournet.com. 