 The Nelson Mandela Bay Metro Employee Excellence Awards were relaunched on Tuesday at the Feather Market Convention Centre, in Port Elizabeth. There are currently 7 000 employees in the municipality - all, who are eligible to win in the ten nomination categories. These nomination categories are: The awards are meant to recognise the often selfless work done by the Metro's workers in solving residents' service delivery challenges while serving as a motivation for other workers to follow the example of the winners. Aptly called the Baystars Awards, they were first launched in 2009, but were paused in 2013 - hence the relaunch on Tuesday. The awards ceremony will take place in the first week of December as it previously did. However, the deadline for nominations is the 30th of September. The Metro's departments will be given two weeks to verify the nominations and to look for finalists. Previous winners were invited to take the podium and the 2013 winner, Rony Gonono, who has been working for the municipality for 31 years said that he was happy that the programme was relaunched. “In 2013, I won a cell phone and R20 000, which I used to get myself a driving license in 2014, but the phone was stolen,” he said. The winner of the Mentoring Award in 2013, Xhobani Qina, who is working at the Bulk Water Services division, said that he was grateful to the municipality for the initiative, which has opened many doors for him. “The irony of this is because most of the guys I trained are now my bosses while I remain in the same position. I was in even after winning an award for mentoring my 'bosses'," he described. He added that Midlands College invited him to lecture there because of the Baystars Awards and also Monash University invited him to do post-graduate studies in water management, while the municipality doesn’t recognize him. Councillors and the City Manager cannot be nominated for the awards. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Mayoral Committee Member for Human Resources and Corporate Administration, Cllr Annette Lovemore, said that she was looking forward to working on this project. “All municipality workers work hard and they do a tremendous job, but we are looking for those who take an extra mile and are committed.” She also challenged the previous winners to start nominating people as they are the best people to do the nominations and wished the best upon everyone. “The Awards will not only motivate and recognise municipal staff who adhere to excellence and consistently go the extra mile in their duties; they will also inspire others to follow suit or do more,” Municipal spokesperson, Mthubanzi Mniki, described. 