 Is it on or is it off... There has been a lot of confusion about a planned petrol strike said to take place on Friday the 27th of July across South Africa. A video has been making the rounds on social media and WhatsApp, stating that a mass movement has to be made to show the country's distress over the recent fuel price hikes that have been hitting South Africa and the future predicted price hikes said to take place in August this year. The video was created by Visven Reddy, a former member of the ANC, he now heads an organisation calling themselves the People Against Petrol and Paraffin Price Increase (PAPPI). He warned the government earlier in July that they must give in to their memorandum of demands or face a national shut-down. Reddy has requested that the people of South Africa boycott all fuel stations on Friday and that motorists remain home. “We cannot and we must not accept these exorbitant fuel prices as it is stealing from South Africans, especially the poor. We have no choice but to call on the nation to stand up and be counted. This Friday we call on you to stay at home because it will not be safe to be on the roads. Also it will be a sign of protests against the high fuel prices that we will be paying,” said Reddy in the video. “By doing this the country will come to a standstill and this government will know that the people cannot be taken for a ride any longer. It will be a reminder to government that we put them there, the time for talking is over its now time for action. “Enough is enough; we call on you to support only those organisations that have stood by us in our call to bring the fuel prices down.” Reddy has requested that the public also avoid making use of public transport such as taxis and buses during the day as well. The organisation Fuel Prices Must Fall, which is organised by Paul Jenkins, released a statement on their Facebook page that they do not support the call for a shut-down and that the only action they are supporting is the call to picket outside the Premiers office in Pietermaritzburg and an action to GO-SLOW on the N3 on the 17th of August. A petrol attendant in Port Elizabeth, who requested to remain anonymous, voiced his concerns about the possible protest to RNEWS. “I don’t know if I must come in to work or what, this message on WhatsApp is going everywhere and none of us know what to do,” he said. There seems to be mass confusion about this alleged petrol strike and some members of the public aren’t even aware it is taking place. The public were notified to fill up their tanks on Thursday in preparation of the protest, but it seemed all normal on Port Elizabeth's roads and the service stations on Friday morning. Apparently, Reddy announced that President Cyril Ramaphosa had agreed to meet with the organisers of the shut-down, hence it has been postponed until further notice.  