 Isuzu Motors South Africa announced on Tuesday that they will be partnering with the Propella Business Centre, in Port Elizabeth, through an investment into the Industrial Hub for the next three years. Named the Isuzu Industrial Hub, the centre will support technology and innovation in the advanced manufacturing sector in the Eastern Cape. The Propella Business Incubator, which is a partnership between Nelson Mandela University and the Industrial Development Corporation, provides support for innovators and new technology in the Eastern Cape. Propellas aims to give these manufacturers a competitive edge in the global market, with their main focus on renewable energy, energy generation, energy efficiency and advanced manufacturing. At present the Incubatees, who each occupy a space in the Isuzu Business Hub- include the Rhino Group, which makes green products such as light weight concrete made out of re-cycled polystyrene and a company called Rubber Nano, that makes energy efficient rubber, which is presently used in the shoe industry. Isuzu’s Corporate Affairs executive, Denise Van Huyssteen, said “The support that Isuzu will provide will be directed at the development of innovative projects within the Industrial hub.” She added; “Isuzu is focused on building a sustainable business. Developing meaningful partnerships, which positively impact the community, forms a part of this strategy. As we look at the community around us, we want to find ways of making a difference by truly empowering people. Propella thinks like us –which makes them an ideal partner." Propella Business Incubation manager, Anita Palmer said; “Propella welcomes Isuzu’s’s investment into the industrial innovation of the metro." “Through the development of technologies and providing the right type of infrastructure to entrepreneurs, we facilitate the success of their business.” Professor Andrew Leitch, Chairman of the Propella Board and Deputy Vice Chancellor at Nelson Mandela University, said “Unemployment is a problem in South Africa and for young people it is the worst, with 50% unemployment rate amongst the youth in Nelson Mandela Bay.” “Propella can be a vehicle that can make a difference, it can create jobs for Information Technology and Engineering graduates,” he added. Many of the innovators, who pitched their ideas to Propella and are now part of the Incubator Industrial programme are Science, Engineering or IT graduates from NMU. “Propella belongs to the Nelson Mandela Bay metro, we must all do our bit to ensure its success,” said Prof. Leitch. Main image: Left to right- Gregory Wood (Isuzu Purchasing Manager), Denise van Huyssteen,( Isuzu Executive Corporate Affairs), Anita Palmer (Propella Business Incubation Manager), Professor Andrew Leitch, (Chairman of the Propella Board).  