 The IRONMAN 70.3 World Championships, which will be hosted by Nelson Mandela Bay on the 1st and 2nd of September 2018, proudly announced on Monday that Isuzu would be the title sponsor. IRONMAN 70.3 is a worldwide event that takes place in a different country every year and athletes can participate by qualification only. The Isuzu IRONMAN 70.3 World Championship triathlon will be taking place in Africa for the first time ever and expects to attract approximately 4,500 athletes from over 100 global qualifying events in locations such as Europe, the Middle East, Asia, Oceania and the Americas. This year’s Championship, hosted by Port Elizabeth, will be a two- day event with professional and age-group women’s racing, occurring on Saturday the 1st of September and professional and age-group men’s racing occurring on Sunday the 2nd of September. Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, emphasised in his speech at Monday’s announcement, the importance of international events injecting much needed investment into the metro. “We benefit as a city with every single successful sporting event that is hosted here, and IRONMAN 70.3 is probably one of the most iconic. This event is potentially bigger than when we hosted the World Cup, there are potentially more athletes competing, more international visitors and the financial impact could be extraordinary for our city” said Trollip. Director of operations for Africa Ironman and this year’s Race Director, Paul Wolff, said, “To host the event, we had to go through a tender process. In September last year it was announced that Port Elizabeth would host the championship”. “We want to put Port Elizabeth on the map, athletes and participants of the Championship will bring their family and friends to our City. There will also be world-wide coverage” added Wolff. The mayor also commented, “We will do everything in our power to make sure we don’t waste water at this event, but the event is critically important to this city. If we don’t attract investment into the city and we don’t grow the opportunity for jobs, and don’t bring people to spend money in this city, we will not only be faced with water restrictions, but job restrictions too”. Athletes at the 2018 Isuzu IRONMAN 70.3 World Championship will take on a 1.9 km swim at Kings Beach, followed by a 90 km bike ride through town, and rounding the triathlon off with a 21 km run along Marine Drive. Michael Sacke, Chief Executive Officer and Managing Director for Isuzu, said, “International events such as the IRONMAN 70.3 World Championship boost the local economy through increased tourism. Isuzu is keen to play its part in the economic development and transformation of the country. Partnering with IRONMAN to make this event possible is evidence of our commitment to the city and the country”.  