 The Nelson Mandela Bay Metro is facing the worst drought ever as its dam levels have decreased to below 20% and they continue to decrease as people continue to use water while the rains are not falling. The five dams that supply the Metro also supply the Kouga Local Municipality and farmers in the Gamtoos area. The municipality has implemented interventions, which it hopes will save the Bay from running dry. Water restrictions in the Metro were introduced in August 2016 and since then, 40MI of water has been achieved. City Manager, Johan Mettler, and the Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, have approved the interventions, which are grouped in four categories and aimed at saving the little water that the Metro has left. According to the Metro, 13 plumbers have been deployed to attend to emergency leakages and while Councillor Masixole Zinto, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC for Infrastructure, continues to encourage residents to continue to make use of  0800 50 20 20 to report leaks to the municipality. More meter inspectors have also been deployed as well as six contractors, who will deal with emergency drought interventions such as pipeline leaks. Phase 2 started in June 2017 and the treatment capacity was increased from 90 to 140 Ml/d i.e by 50 Mi/d. The Municipality used that additional water by commissioning Standford booster pump, which transfer water in Motherwell as well as “increase the Chelsea and the Motherwell Resservoir Zones to use the available water.” Phase 2 will allow 140 Mi/d of treated water, but the two pump stations can pump 210 Mi/d of water. The municipality has a plan on how they want 70 Mi/d of untreated water available to implement cross-connection at the Nooitgedadgt high lift pump station. As well as converting the Grassridge Reservoir into a temporary treatment facility, modifications have been made to the Chelsea pump station to pump water to kwaNobuhle, Uitenhage, and a temporary pump station for Reservoir Hill will help prevent water pressure reduction. Apparently 25% of this work has been done, but it had to stop after the payments were rejected by the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Budget and Treasury Committee - legal opinion is still under way on the matter. “As a result of reduction budget available, part of the construction programme is being delayed for the construction period up to March 2019.” The project has to be completed within 2-3 months before the project goes on a tender. 