 The Small Business Institute (SBI) of South Africa on Thursday helped to initiate and launch the new Small Business Chamber of the Eastern Cape. Spokesperson for the Small Business Institute (SBI), Yolande Le Roux, said “Small businesses in the Eastern Cape need a big voice and this is what a Small Business Chamber can help do, by giving small business owners an opportunity to unite and exchange ideas and advice, not stand alone”. The new Small Business Chamber of the Eastern Cape, which will be based in Port Elizabeth, will serve as a network forum for small business owners in the region. As a non-profit organisation, membership is free and the committee members and Chairpersons will be performing their duties on a purely voluntary basis. The SBI is constituted to promote the economic and business interests of its more than one hundred chamber organisation members and thousands of small to medium business enterprises, in the wider economy. The SBI stands for sustainable market led job creation, inclusive economic growth and ethical leadership. Those with small businesses that decide to join the new Small Business Chamber in the Eastern Cape will have a number of services and expertise available to them, such as- legal services, tourism advice, training advice and support for women in business, to name a few. Members will also be able to collaborate and discuss issues that affect small businesses, such as- reduction of red tape and minimum wage increases. A committee, consisting of six small business owners in Port Elizabeth, was elected at Thursday’s meeting, they are Mr Herman Nell, Mr Pieter Kitshoff, Mr David Stopforth, Mrs Carol Stopforth, Mr Andre Nel and Mrs Gaynor Bronkhorst. Networking meetings will take place once a month where, small business owners in Port Elizabeth will be welcome to join and become permanent members of the chamber. Committee member, Pieter Kitshoff, said “A small Business Chamber is Port Elizabeth is important, when international events happen here, little of that money is staying in the Bay. International investment needs to stay in Port Elizabeth. Networking together means we can support each other and make sure small businesses grow”. Gaynor Bronkhurst, owner of Paradigm Business Training, said “The new Small Business Chamber will be important for networking and getting rid of red tape in conducting business in the small business sector”. If you would like to join the new Small Business Chamber of the Eastern Cape, contact- Carol Stopforth on: 083 278 5049 or e-mail: david@dynamicprintworx.co.za today. Image: New Committee members, left to right- Herman Nell, Pieter Kitshoff, David Stopforth, Yolande Le Roux, Carol Stopforth, Andre Nel and Gaynor Bronkhorst. 