 Nelson Mandela Bay will host the inaugural African Advanced Manufacturing and Composites show, in a three-day event, which will be hosted by the Nelson Mandela Bay Stadium, from the 7th to the 9th of November 2018. According to Deon Engelke of Inkanyezi Events, “The organisers anticipate that the event will inject R34.2 million into the local economy”. “The objective of the event is to showcase Africa’s advanced manufacturing capabilities and is estimated to attract four thousand visitors from both trade and public, including 100 international buyers, such as leading Composites companies from France and Germany,” added Engelke. The event will include an interactive exhibition, where visitors can interact with the technology on display; conferences; factory tours and a national awards function. Andy Radford, CEO of Mandela Bay Composites Cluster, emphasised that the event was open to the public and that the objective was to get teachers and educators involved. “The show will not only bring all the key role-players and technology partners together towards a common vision, it will also inspire emerging engineers in South Africa,” he described. “Three-dimensional printing, lasers, automation and artificial intelligence are exciting tools to encourage a new generation of engineers and scientists but we need to expose them and industry to these technologies.” The event will have indoor exhibits showcasing automation, computing and 3D printing; while the outdoor demonstrations will showcase boats, vehicles, helicopters and drones. The event is an outcome of the collaboration between The Mandela Bay Composites Cluster (MBCC) and the Mandela Bay Development Agency (MBDA), which includes community projects such as the Baakens Valley 'Composites innovation corridor'. A project that aims to develop the Baakens Valley, and has already initiated a Composites Makerspace lab at WERK, where informal training on how to use composites will take place. Locals are also encouraged to take part and can learn how to make jewellery from the composites material. Ashraf Adam, the CEO of the Nelson Mandela Bay Development Agency, said that he had every confidence that the event would bring business and advanced manufacturing into Port Elizabeth. “There needs to be development in the Baakens Valley, Central and Helenvale. The composites cluster can initiate improvements in these areas, such as making new walk ways and lamp posts, creating sustainable and long term improvements in the Nelson Mandela Bay area,” said Adam. Image: Left to right, Andy Radford (CEO of MBCC), Ashraf Adam (CEO of MBDA) and Andrew Binning (CEO of Inkanyezi Events). 