 Acting National Head of the Directorate for Priority Crime Investigation, the Hawks, Lieutenant General Yolisa Matakata on Friday congratulated Cape Town’s Serious Corruption Investigation Unit for the arrest and ultimate conviction of the province’s former top cop. Former Provincial Police Commissioner Arno Lamoer, former SAPS Brigadiers Darius Van Der Ross and Colin Govender, as well as businessman Saleem Dawjee have been convicted of corruption, racketeering and money laundering after the former police officers admitted to receiving gratifications worth thousands of rands from Dawjee. On Thursday the Western Cape High Court sentenced Lamoer, 58, to eight years imprisonment of which two years are suspended, Govender, 57, to six years imprisonment of which two years are suspended, van der Ross, 49, to four years imprisonment of which two years are suspended and Dawjee, 53, to eight years imprisonment of which two years are suspended and a R40 000 fine of which R20 000 is suspended. The accused were arrested for corruption in 2012, following an investigation into the corrupt relationship the senior police officers had with the businessman who in turn received certain privileges. The Hawks’ investigation uncovered a money trail from Dawjee into the bank accounts of the senior police officers. Lieutenant General Matakata said the entire law enforcement community owes its gratitude to the dedicated team “who worked under extreme difficulty but continued to burn the midnight oil and hunted across distant terrain for vital information before sewing up what appears to be a cast-in-iron case against senior Western Cape SAPS managers”. The team established beyond doubt that the accused were dishonest. Lieutenant General Matakata said credit must also go to other agencies such as the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), Independent Police Investigative Directorate (IPID) and the South African Police Service (SAPS) which helped tremendously in the case. “The sentence, we hope, will send a very strong message to those who misuse their strategic positions for selfish gains. “The Hawks investigation and the successful conviction shows not only the level of independence, but that we do work without any fear nor favour,” she said. – SAnews.gov.za 