 The employment of foreign nationals is governed by the Immigration Act 13 of 2002, as amended, along with its Regulations, the latest being published in May 2014 as well as the Employment Services Act 4 of 2014 (“ESA”). The Immigration Act and its Regulations provides in Section 38 that no person shall employ: When reading Section 38(2) of the Immigration Act it is therefore clear that a duty is placed on the employer to make an effort to ascertain the status of citizenship of the persons it employs. Should it be found that the employer knowingly employed an illegal foreigner, the Immigration Act stipulates in Section 49(3) that the employer would then have made themselves guilty of an offence and could be fined or even imprisoned. When it comes to instituting disciplinary action against foreign employees, employers must understand that the Labour Relations Act protects this category of employees and that the same legal rights are afforded to foreign employees even in the event that they do not have valid working visas. Should an employer therefore unfairly dismiss an employee who is a foreign national, compensation can be awarded against the employer. Types of work visa’s: UIF Contributions When taking into consideration that a foreign employee enjoys the same rights as a South African employee in terms of labour legislation, it would then be reasonably implied that they should then also be liable for employee obligations such as contributing to the Unemployment Insurance Fund which would then mean that foreign employees have the right to claim such benefits. Section 4 (1)(d) of the UIF Contributions Act 4 of 2002 does however exclude some foreign employees from contributing towards and claiming from UIF, such as: What if the employee’s work permit expires? In the event that the employee’s work permit expires the employer should give the employee reasonable time to obtain a new work permit (the resulting time off may be unpaid). If the employee fails to submit a valid work permit before or on the established deadline, an incapacity procedure should be embarked on, upon which conclusion the employee’s contract of employment may be terminated based on the employee failing to produce a valid document to legalise his/her work in South Africa. These permits should be verified by the Department of Home Affairs and should it be found that the permit is fraudulent, the employee may be subjected to a disciplinary hearing which could also lead to the termination of the employee’s contract as well as criminal prosecution. Sources: http://www.home-affairs.gov.za/index.php/refugee-status-asylum http://www.dha.gov.za/index.php/immigration-services/types-of-visas  