 The Business Women’s Association (BWA) of Port Elizabeth announced the names of some of the top women in business in Nelson Mandela Bay on Friday. The 18 businesswomen are finalists in the prestigious Regional Business Achiever Awards (RBAA) – which annually seeks to acknowledge excellence in the business, corporate, professional and social arena. “It’s an exceptionally exciting time of the year as the BWA gears up to acknowledge all the phenomenal women in business in Port Elizabeth. A huge congratulations to everyone who was nominated - it’s an incredible accolade in itself. "Our Regional Business Achievers Awards is indeed one of our flagship events and we wish all the finalists the very best for the journey ahead; we look forward to walking this road with them,” said BWA Port Elizabeth Chair, Heather Dutton. The finalists in the six categories now enter an independent and audited judging process before the winners are announced at a gala dinner on Thursday, June 21. The independent panel of judges, made up of a broad cross-section of Nelson Mandela Bay leaders in business, government and civil society, will interview and select a winner in each of the six categories. The engaging RBAA participation process, which will take place over the next month, not only recognises but also enriches the careers of finalists and winners – as they go through a period of self-reflection and growth. The 2018 RBAA finalists are: EMERGING ENTREPRENEUR: Bev Gaia - Gaia Marketing Kelly Mae Dillon - Kelly Mae Bespoke Melissa Palmer - B & E Conference Centre ENTREPRENEUR: Noleen Acton - MaxGrant CC Sandy Zoetmulder - News Café Sarah Dirsuwei - The Plantation, The Boma and Chasing the Rainbow SOCIAL ENTREPRENEUR: Deidre Burger - Cheshire Home for the Physically Disabled Linda van Oudheusden - Missionvale Care Centre Tania Plakonouris - Wilderness Foundation Africa PROFESSIONAL: Karien vd Sandt - Exclusive VD Sandt Audiology Moya Rossouw - Greyvensteins Attorneys Samantha Streak - Port Elizabeth Montessori CORPORATE: Gitte Wiseman - Headhunters Recruitment Roseanne Shadrach - The Spar Group Natalie Knight - Konica Minolta GOVERNMENT: Amsha Muthayan - Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Buyiswa Hlangothi - Nelson Mandela University Ntshantsha Buyambo - Transnet National Ports Authority Winners will be announced at the 2018 BWA/Investec Regional Business Achiever Awards Gala Dinner, hosted at the Boardwalk Hotel and Convention Centre on Thursday, June 21. This year’s keynote speaker has been confirmed as social entrepreneur Wendy Luhabe [picture attached]. Luhabe was among the first generation of black women to qualify with a commerce degree. She has been a social entrepreneur for 25 years, served on various boards and is a recipient of four Honorary Doctorates for her contribution to the empowerment of women in various sectors of the economy. Further information and bookings for the RBAA gala event can be obtained from Samantha Bowers at the BWA PE office: email pe@bwasa.co.za, or visit the BWAPE Facebook page. 