 Eastern Cape police have revealed that since the beginning of April 2018, six life sentences and 122 years of combined sentences were imposed for rape, attempted murder and robbery at various courts across the Eastern Cape Province. Police spokesperson, Captain Mali Govender, said: “On Friday, the rape cases against a 37-year-old man, who belonged to a ‘Oonontwayibona’ gang (loosely explained as the invisible ones) concluded with Mangala Ntsikelelo being sentenced to life imprisonment. “He was also handed a 15-year sentence for charges of robbery and attempted murder in the Mthatha High Court.” She said that this follows after he was positively identified through DNA. The ‘Oonontwayibona’ gang clad in balaclavas and covered in blankets operated in the Bityi and Mthatha villages. According to Captain Govender, the perpetrators observed the homes of the victims during the day. “At nightfall, this gang would then break into the women’s homes where this evil perpetrator used his accomplices to hold down the defenceless victims and then raped them.” She said that it was revealed in court that before fleeing the scene, the victims were also robbed. “During court proceedings the accused refused to furnish the names of his accomplices. His victims were between the ages of 12 to 37 years,” Captain Govender said. “Mangala Ntsikelelo had been convicted and sentenced for 18 counts of rape in 10 cases, six cases of robbery and one of attempted murder. His crime spree spanned from 2010 until 2012 and he was eventually arrested in December 2016.” Meanwhile, the Butterworth Regional Court sentenced 29-year-old Siphamandla Somdaka to undergo 28 years imprisonment for the rape of a 20-year-old woman on Thursday. “The victim was walking alone on the 14th September 2014, at about 14:00, at Upper Gwadu locality, Fort Malan Village, Willowvale, when she came across the accused, who was armed with a firearm and threatened her,” Captain Govender said. “They then dragged the victim to a bushy area and repeatedly raped her.” Another case concluded in the Port Elizabeth High Court on 9 May 2018, where a 30-year-old Vusumuzi Snyman of Kwazakhele was sentenced to five life sentences and another 20 years imprisonment for rape. “This followed after he was positively linked to seven rape cases (four from Kwazakhele, three from New Brighton) through DNA. “His modus operandi was to kick open doors, raping and robbing his victims at knife point. His victims were between the ages of 21 and 60 and these incidences occurred between 2011 and 2014,” said Captain Govender.   The Uitenhage Magistrate’s Court also sentenced Nxati Fete,19-years-old, to 13 years imprisonment on the 7th of May 2018 for the rape of a 21-year-old victim. According to testimony, the victim was raped in her residence at 11:00 on 3 January 2018 in Faku street, kwaNobuhle. Fete was arrested by detectives on 10 January 2018. “Meanwhile the Butterworth Regional Court sentenced a 27-year-old Vusumzi Mpayipheli to 33 years imprisonment on the 12thApril 2018, for raping three University students. “It is alleged that Mpayipheli went to the residence of Walter Sisulu University students at Ibika Township, Butterworth, on 05 March 2016 at about 03:30,” Captain Govender said. “He entered their room whilst they had been asleep. He dragged each of them out and raped them. The victims were between the ages of 18 and 26.” On 16 April 2018, 29-year-old Khontso Ntshali was sentenced to 12 years imprisonment at Centane Regional Court for raping a 16-year-old girl. “It is alleged that Nkontso came across the girl while she was strolling with her boyfriend on the 15 November 2015 at about 20:30 at Nkente location, Zibunu Village, in Centane. “He drew out a knife and chased the boyfriend of the victim and the victim was left at the mercy of Nkontso,” Captain Govender described. Eastern Cape Provincial SAPS Commissioner, Lt-Gen Liziwe Ntshinga, welcomed the convictions and said: “Although we cannot turn back the hands of time, we will continue to ensure that justice is served. The sentences serves as a message to other perpetrators or would be offenders that our officers will not halt until these ruthless sadists feel the full might of the law.”   