 The Nelson Mandela University on Thursday announced that it has obtained a final court order stipulating the rules around the resumption of operations at the University on Thursday following Wednesday’s barricading of campus entrances. On Wednesday, the South African Students Congress (SASCO) at the Nelson Mandela University in Port Elizabeth on Wednesday announced that it was mobilising students to immediately go on a mass protestas of the 02nd of May 2018, until further notice. Some Nelson Mandela University campuses were then barricaded as a result of the mass protest. It said that the main purpose of the interdict (downloadale HERE) is to protect the rights and safety of those who wish to access the University to work and/or pursue their studies, while also allowing for the right to protest in accordance with the conditions stipulated in the interdict. These include that protesting students conduct themselves in a manner that does not: "Staff and students are reminded to carry their Mandela University identification cards on campus. You are encouraged to read the interdict in full so that you are familiar with its conditions," the NMU said. "The interdict was originally requested last year but as it was never served, it is still applicable. The respondents are cited in the order, which is a final order. It is therefore as enforceable now as it was on 4 October 2017 when it was issued by the court." Social media and other threats The University added that it is also aware that various threats and voice notes have been circulating on social media. "You are encouraged to forward all such cases to campuscontrol@mandela.ac.za for further investigation, as well as forwarding footage of misdemeanors such as destroying property, theft, burning of tyres, obstructing traffic, and forcing staff and students to vacate university premises." Way forward "If the protesting students comply with the interdict, it will be business as usual. If not, the University reserves the right in terms of taking action against said student/s," the NMU said. "The University will also communicate the status on the ground and engage directly with line managers overseeing the essential services of security, catering, cleaning and ICT Services." However, SASCO NMU, in an early morning post on its Facebook page, said; "This communication serves to inform the students of Nelson Mandela university that the institution is shut down until further notice. "Any emails or communication that comes from any reactionary lecturers from this university MUST be disregarded. Those cases must be reported to the only reliable leadership of students in the institution, SASCO." 