 Speaking after its second ordinary plenary session over the weekend, the South African Communist Party (SACP) in the Eastern Cape said it stands in solidarity with striking bus drivers. The SACP PEC meeting was attended by SACP Central Committee members, Bulelwa Tunyiswa, Mandla Makupula, Phumulo Masualle and Godfrey Oliphant. "The SACP pledges its unwavering solidarity with the workers engaged in the bus strike," said SACP Eastern Cape Provincial Spokesperson, Siyabonga Mdodi. "The arrogance of the bus companies is inconveniencing the entire working class. It is in this context that we are calling on all workers to actively support the bus strike through action." He said that the party has noted the calls by cabinet for the speedy resolution of the bus strike. "We are of the firm view that as the cabinet calls for the speedy resolution of the bus strike, the cabinet must also resolve the public service negotiations and avoid public service strike," he added. "It cannot be that the public employer (government) is engaged on unending negotiations for more than eight months, the government must lead by example in speedy resolution of disputes." Mineworkers trapped underground. The meeting of our party observed a moment of silence to pay homage to the mineworkers who died underground in the Sibanye Gold Mine. "The SACP wishes to express its solidarity with the families of the mineworkers, the fellow mineworkers and the trade unions. We condemn the brutality and arrogance of mine bosses for putting the lives of the people in danger despite clear evidence of the looming danger, it is in this context we are calling upon the relevant authorities to hold this mine to fully account," Mdodi said. He added that the Eastern Cape is a reservoir of migrant labour as the consequence of apartheid capitalism and to this effect many people of the Eastern Cape go to the mines and come back as either corpse or disabled. "It is in this context that we recommit ourselves to work with the ex-mineworkers in reclaiming their dignity and getting the much needed rehabilitation," he described. "In the month of June the SACP will convene ex-mineworkers imbizos in O.R Tambo District, Ncumisa Kondlo District (Amathole), Alfred Nzo District and Chris Hani District. The purpose of these imbizos will be to work with the ex-mineworkers to resolve their socio-economic challenges and to reclaim their dignity." Joint programme with the DPSA: The meeting received a very insightful presentation from the Disabled People of South Africa (DPSA) delivered by Comrade Thabiso Phethuka. "The presentation enlightened the SACP leadership collective on the more complex challenges faced by the disabled people and their programmes aimed at unlocking those challenges," Mdodi said. "The meeting noted that many public buildings are inaccessible to the disabled people and therefore depriving them access to public services." He added that the SACP and the DPSA agreed to work together on a joint programme to achieve universal accessibility for the disable people in the Eastern Cape and beyond. Developments in the province: The party leadership discussed the developments in the province including the reconfiguration of the provincial government. "The SACP is of the firm view that this period of transition requires a level-headed political management to ensure the synergy between the government and the African National Congress as the governing party," said Mdodi. "It is in this context that the SACP endorsed the decision of the reconfiguration of government in the interest of the people of the Eastern Cape and ensuring certainty in provincial administration for effective delivery of services." 