 In South Africa the legacy of apartheid continues to determine, who accesses opportunities - that is according to the Democratic Alliance (DA) in the Eastern Cape. "Apartheid was a system designed to benefit white South Africans and disadvantage black South Africans. The privilege associated with that system lives on and can never be denied or be swept under the carpet," explained Nqaba Bhanga - DA Eastern Cape Provincial Leader. "I therefore agree with the DA’s Federal Leader, Mmusi Maimane, when he says that the time has come for South Africans to confront 'white privilege and black poverty'. "The history of South Africa leaves us in no doubt that white people, in the past, had a political, social and economic advantage over black South Africans." His comments come after reports that the DA leadership was at loggerheads about Maimane's 'white privilege' comments at a Freedom Day rally in Soshanguve in Pretoria, where Maimane reportedly said white privilege and black poverty must be addressed. Maimane over the weekend took to Twitter to defend his comments saying; "I firmly stand by comments I made on Freedom Day. SA remains deeply unequal, with black SAns locked out of opportunities. We must focus on solving the problem. Liberation of one race is not the enslaving of another - all of us, black & white, must come together to build... The racists from all backgrounds will seek to divide. SA still remains deeply unequal on the basis of race.I won’t pander to the racists, will work with All to ensure that SA belongs to all who live in it Black&White. Let’s dismantle our yesterday& build our tomorrow." Bhanga added that nowhere is this historical imbalance clearer than in the spatial development of the country, "which placed white people in a privileged position and black people in a disadvantaged position". "After South Africa’s first free and fair democratic election in 1994, the consensus was that these imbalances of the past must be redressed," he described. "The DA’s position is to redress the imbalances by building a South African society in which individuals can compete in the same space with equal opportunities. "Unfortunately the current social and economic reality is that access to opportunities is still defined by the haves versus the have nots." 