 Jailed African National Congress (ANC) Councillor, Andile Lungisa, has been released on a R10 000 bail after serving only 16 days of his two-year sentence at the North-end Prison. This follows the successful conclusion of his urgent bail application. The controversial politician recently hired criminal defence attorney, Alwyn Griebenow, to help him appeal his conviction and sentence. Lungisa, who was last month convicted on a charge of assault with the intent to cause Grievous Bodily Harm (GBH), was sentenced to three years behind bars at the beginning of May. One year was suspended for five years, so he will serve an effective two-year jail term. Lungisa faced charges of assaulting Democratic Alliance (DA) councillor, Rano Kayser, and allegedly smashed a glass jug filled with water over Kayser’s head during a brawl that broke out a Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality council meeting in October 2016. The court heard that Lungisa needed to lodge his appeal petition to the High Court within three working days of his sentence, which he did. The State did not oppose bail. Magistrate Morney Cannon, however, said that Lungisa was given special treatment during his brief incarceration - a claim denied by the defence and the ANC. He said that he had to peruse through the bail application documents overnight. In his ruling, the Magistrate said that he also considered that Lungisa, who was out on a R1 000 bail during his trial, continued to appear in the court for all proceedings. He noted that Lungisa is a public figure and that he believes that he will continue to abide by the rules of the court. Lungisa handed his in passport and the bail conditions stated that he must reside at the address that he mentioned in his affidavits. He must report to the police station two times a week between 08:00am to 18:00. His brother, Ayongezwa Lungisa, who spoke on behalf of the family, expressed how releaved they are that he will be released. He stated that they will deal with other issues in the Grahamstown High Court some of which were the glitches they encountered while applying for bail. Ayongezwa also thanked the members of the ANC and every one, who has been showing support to his brother. He said they their mother is a strong person so she has been dealing with Andile's arrest very well, although their father has broken down now and again. ANC members prayed outside the court chambers, thanking God for releasing Lungisa and for hearing their prayers in their desperate time of need. Lungisa is expected to be met by ANC supporters when he walks out of the North-end. On Thursday, Senior ANC official and fomer MEC, Mlibo Qoboshiyane, who also attended the hearing along with Lungisa's family, said that he believed Lungisa should not be behind bars.  