 It was a joyous occasion for Port Elizabeth's Wells Estate community, who on Thursday gathered at their Community Hall for the graduation of eleven home-based care givers. The eleven graduates received their primary healthcare certificates, as a result of the collaboration between Dedisa Peaking Power Station, which is based in the adjacent Coega Special Economic Zone, and the Mfesane Community Development Organization, a local non-profit organisation, which focuses on community skills development. Looking to invest in the local community that surrounds the Dedisa Power Station, the company approached Mfesane. Nkele Mukhari, the community liaison from Dedisa, said “We are hoping to invest up to R4 million in out-reach projects in the areas that surround the Coega IDZ. “Mfesane, helped us to identify where the investment is most needed and helped us to implement it." Wendy Ndima, the Programme Manager for Mfesane Eastern Cape, who headed the training programme, said “The nearest clinic to Wells Estate and the Bluewater Bay Extension is 30 km’s away. Those, who are sick and do not have transport, do not have access to the clinic. “This is why we came up with the solution of training people in the community to become primary health care givers and provide a service to their community.” The eleven candidates, comprising ten women and one man, received health care, entrepreneur and leadership training. The aim of the training is to empower and equip them with much needed skills. The candidates will provide personalised, home-based, health care to residents in the Wells Estate and Bluewater Bay Extension, who cannot access the clinic. They will also assist people with HIV, TB, diabetes and general health issues. Dedisa Peaking Power will pay them a stipend for their good work in the community. “Dedisa decided to invest and equip people with important skills, which will positively impact over a thousand residents. This proves that Partnerships and projects can help communities in South Africa,” commented Mukhari. She also announced that due to the success of the programme, Dedisa had decided to recruit ten more candidates for 2018. Health care graduate, Nombuyiselo Vukemini, said “I am very happy with the training I received, as I now have skills and knowledge which I didn’t have before”. Mrs Ntshudu, a social worker, who gave a motivational speech at the ceremony said, “Education enables a person to do something they never imagined. Don’t let poverty define you”. 