 An alert member of the SAPS K9 Unit proved once again his committment to the fight against crime, after a suspect was arrested and two firearms recovered following a robbery at a Port Elizabeth business on Wednesday morning. "Earlier today [Wednesday], a Quantum minibus had been circulated as it was involved in a business robbery in Linton Grange, Port Elizabeth. As the member was driving on the Malabar Road, the Quantum minibus passed him and the member decided to turn around and to follow the minibus," described police spokesperson, Captain Sandra Janse Van Rensburg. "When the driver of the minibus noticed the police vehicle behind them, he sped off. A high speed chase ensued and the suspects in the vehicle fired shots at the police vehicle. "The member immediately called for assistance, whilst the suspects continued firing at the police vehicle. This continued until the vehicle stopped close to Algoa Park and three suspect jumped out." She said that, at this stage, other SAPS vehicles came, and the members chased the suspects on foot while they continued to shoot at the officers. "During the cross-fire, one suspect was shot and killed, another was arrested and two fire arms were recovered. One member is in hospital after suffering a gunshot wound from this attack, an innocent driver, who was a bystander was also injured in the leg," she added. Eastern Cape Provincial Commissioner, Lt Gen Ntshinga said, “Armed criminals continue to attempt to render this province ungovernable unsuccessfully. In our efforts to ensure that we stamp the authority of the State, which includes protecting our citizens and their property we warn our members to be extra vigilant and alert at all times both on and off duty. "Our members are heeding to this call and their readiness is key in these recent successes. The management commends them for their bravery. We will not rest until the citizens of the Eastern Cape are and feel safe.” The suspects have been sought following a robbery at a filling station in Cape Road, Port Elizabeth. A case of armed robbery has been opened which will be investigated by the DPCI 