 Addressing a cheerful crowd that came to receive him after he was granted bail by the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court on Friday, African National Congress (ANC) Councillor, Andile Lungisa, said that while he respects the court, it had failed to recognise that it was the Democratic Alliance (DA) Councillors, who attacked him in that now famous Council brawl of October 2016. Lungisa's release comes after he  successfully brought an urgent bail application before the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court so that he could await the outcome of his appeal out of prison. He has been released on a R10 000 bail after serving only 16 days of his two-year sentence. Lungisa recently hired criminal defence attorney, Alwyn Griebenow, to help him appeal his conviction and sentence. Last month convicted on a charge of assault with the intent to cause Grievous Bodily Harm (GBH), was sentenced to three years behind bars at the beginning of May. One year was suspended for five years, so he will serve an effective two-year jail term. Lungisa faced charges of assaulting Democratic Alliance (DA) councillor, Rano Kayser, and allegedly smashed a glass jug filled with water over Kayser’s head during a brawl that broke out a Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality council meeting in October 2016. Addressing the crowd, he mantained that he is not a violent person, was never violent and will never be violent. He explained that three councillors from the DA, who had no permission from the Speaker to move from their own seating, suddenly came at him and he had to try and defend himself from the attack - which is why he immediately ran away after hitting Kayser with a glass water jug. "We respect the judiciary of this country, but we saying that the Judiciary must be fair because if not, there will come a time where we won’t be able to respect that Judiciary," Lungis described. “I never went to any chair and I never attacked any councillor, who is a colleague.”  He said if anyone really looks at the video footage from that Council meeting it shows him being attacked and responding to protect himself that is why they are appealing his conviction and sentence at the Grahamstown High Court. Lungisa also thanked members and Councillors of the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) for constantly supporting him throughout this period. “[EFF leader Julius] Malema is also taken to court because he is being feared just like I am taken to court. We are part of that generation, which raised the issue of land," he described. “When we talk about expropriation of land without compensation, we don’t talk about a small piece of land to plant spinach, we talk about this town Port Elizabeth, Cape Town, Johannesburg etc which must be returned back to the people, who are living in the townships. “When we talk about the land we talk about property and that is why we must temper with the property rights and we have to ensure that we are heard clearly that what we want is not reduced to farms." 