 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality MMC for Human Settlements, Nqaba Bhanga, accompanied by Thembakazi Hlela, also in the Metro’s Department of Human Settlements, on Tuesday, visited NU29 and NU30 where the Metro has rolled out a project to address the demand for housing in the Bay. This demand for housing has often resulted in violent service delivery protests across the Metro as well as illegal land invasions. According to the Metro, as an immediate remedy to these challenges, the City has embarked on an accelerated programme of development of sites and relocation of people from stressed areas to serviced sites where they will receive municipal services. One of the projects currently underway is the NU30 housing development where the City is currently working to develop more than 600 sites with a cost of more than R30 million. Some residents have already been settled at the sites after relocating from other settlements that the authorities have deemed unfit for human occupation. Plans are to process the resettled residents so that they will receive RDP houses. Despite the windy weather and the dusty streets of NU29, the residents seemed excited to finally move to their official sites where facilities such as clean water and flushing toilets are accessible. Journalists, who joined the visit, was welcomed by the sound of hammers and as the newly-settled residents hurried to make their new homes comfortable. Addressing the media, Hlela said that the Metro had started with relocating 500 people, who were living in unsafe structures that were built underneath electricity powerlines at Motherwell’s NU8. She said that more people will be moved to the new sites from settlements such as Chris Hani, Raymond Mhlaba, Edongweni. Ekuphumleni, Silvertown and various other informal settlements. Hlela said that about 200 houses have already been built at NU30 and the Metro is working hard to provide more housing. “We will look in the next financial year and decide when and how many houses will be built after the new budget has been approved,” she said.   