 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Eastern Cape on Thursday welcomed the announcement by the Premier, Phumulo Masualle, that he had re-arrangement his Executive Council. "It is our firm belief that this reshuffle will surely assist both the ANC and the ANC Provincial government in fast tracking delivery on the five key priority areas we identified as part of our election manifesto for the current 5th administration. "We are also convinced that this reshuffle would also add impetus to implementation of resolutions taken by the ANC in its most recent lekgotla held from 4- 5 February 2018," described ANC Provincial Secretary, Lulama Ngcukayitobi. "Having done a serious introspection through continuous monitoring and evaluation of performance of all ANC cadres deployed to Cabinet, the need to reshuffle Provincial Cabinet to ensure effective service delivery became crucial. "In line with the ANC 2014 Elections Manifesto priorities – economy and jobs; rural development,land reform and food security;human settlements and basic services; education and training; health and fighting corruption and crime – the reshuffle was necessary to speed up service delivery." Ngcukayitobi said that the party congratulates Lubabalo Oscar Mabuyane, Mlungisi Mvoko, Xolile Nqatha and Bulelwa Tunyiswa for their new roles as MECs for Economic Development, Environmental Affairs, Tourism (DEDEA) & Provincial Treasury, Human Settlements, Sport, Recreation, Arts and Culture (DSRAC), as well as Helen August, Phumza Dyantyi and Pemmy Majodina on their appointments as MECs for Health, Public Works and Social Development respectively. "We wish them well in their new responsibilities as they have a responsibility to vindicate our government as a true representative of our people. "We also wish to take this opportunity to thank Cdes Sakhumzi Somyo, Nancy Sihlwayi, Thandiswa Marawu and Mlibo Qoboshiyane for having made themselves available when the last assignment was given to them as cadres of our movement. We believe that these comrades collectively and individually have a lot to offer both in terms of experience and commitment," he said. "We take this opportunity to reinforce the statement by the National Executive Committee of the ANC on January 8 to the effect that we must make 2018 a year of Renewal ,Unity and Jobs . "As our Province is confronted by new challenges in service delivery and in terms of our commitment to improve the quality of life of our people , we have no choice but to continue to refine our strategies and capacity to meet our challenge." Ngcukayitobi said that the ANC concurs with remarks expressed by President Cyril Ramaphosa that the way Government works had to change in order to improve service delivery. "The reshuffle is also in line with the recent 2018 ANC Provincial Legotla to put the interests of the people first, confident that the changes at Cabinet level will go a long way to make Provincial Government stronger." 