 Nominated as a finalist in the inaugural 2018 Absa Business Day Supplier Development Awards The Coega Development Corporation (CDC) has been nominated as a finalist in the inaugural 2018 Absa Business Day Supplier Development Awards, soon to take place in Parktown, Johannesburg, on 23 May 2018. The CDC, situated in the Eastern Cape, has consistently been flying the flag high for the province of the Eastern Cape despite the tough economic conditions faced by the country; with three prestigious awards nominations in a short period of five months, since the start of this year. “Recognition by the South African captains of industry goes a long way to demonstrate the CDC’s capabilities and expertise in supplier development. "Working together with the SMME’s to develop the Special Economic Zone (SEZ), Coega has become the jewel of South Africa and is well recognized  as a preferred investment destination and a gateway to African markets and the world. "CDC is also one of the partners for government in implementing the country’s infrastructure development and maintenance programme, worth over R1 trillion,” says Dr. Ayanda Vilakazi, CDC’s Head of Marketing, Brand and Communications. The CDC has been nominated in Innovation as Leaders in Job creation through Supplier Development. The organisation is amongst the top twenty (20) shortlisted in the country from over four hundred (400) entries. “As an empowerment-driven organisation, the CDC is conscious of the power of the small business sector in terms of job creation and its contribution to economic development,” says Unathi Maholwana, CDC SMME Programme Manager. “Supplier development is a crucial component of South Africa’s economic growth and transformation that when done properly it leads to sustainable business, genuine empowerment and positive benefits for various stakeholders,” concludes Maholwana. FINALIST:The Coega Development Corporation has been nominated in the top 20 for the Absa Business Day Supplier Development Awards. In the picture is CDC staff with the Black Business Quarterly (BBQ) Award recently won by the organisation. Pictured with the award is Simphiwe Ntlanti, CDC SMME Development Mentor, Nolubabalo Makinana, CDC SMME Development Intern, Nolufefe Ndamase, CDC SMME Development Administrator and Unathi Ncapai, CDC SMME Development Project Management Assistant. 