 Update: Athol Trollip survived the motion against him after parties withdrew their motions. More to follow. Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Athol Trollip, is for the third time expected to face a motion of no confidence that was first brought against him by the Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), supported by other opposition parties in  April. Ahead of the initial vote of no confidence, it seemed likely that the opposition parties would succeed before a surprise announcement that the Patriotic Alliance (PA), which also once wanted Trollip booted out, had dumped the opposition parties and joined the coalition, which would bring the vote to a stalemate. In that situation, Council Speaker, Jonathan Lawack, of the DA, who also faces the chop if the motions go through, would cast the deciding vote. However, when a Special Council Meeting was held at the end of March to vote on the motions, it ended in chaos and had to be postponed.  Opposition parties blamed Lawack for the chaos. The Special Council Meeting was then set for continuation on the 10th of April. It was then permanently adjourned after it again collapsed into chaos. In the meantime, the African National Congress (ANC) lost a Councillor when Bongo Nobimba was sentenced to five years direct imprisonment for fraud and corruption. On Wednesday, the party again lost a Councillor, Andile Lungisa, who was jailed for two years for assaulting DA Councillor, Rano Kayser, back in October 2016, with the intent to cause Grievous Bodily Harm (GBH). He has spent his first night in jail after his application for leave to appeal was rejected.  The events at court have effectively resulted in the DA-led coalition having an upper hand when the motions will be debated. As things stand, the DA has its 57 seats and its coalition partners, the Congress of the People (COPE), the Patriotic Alliance and the African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) have one seat each - for a total of 60 votes in the 120-seat council. On the one side, the African National Congress (ANC) now has 48 seats, the EFF has six, the UDM has two seats, the African Independent Congress (AIC) has one seat and the United Front Eastern Cape has one seat.  