 A reciprocity agreement is to be signed between the India Exhibition Industry Association and the South African Association for The Conference Industry at 2nd BRICS MICE Co-operation Forum Meeting in Hydrabad, India on Thursday. Inkanyezi Events CEO, Andrew Binning, who is the South African Representative on the Forum, and South African Association for The Conference Industry CEO Rudi Vyver, will sign the agreement on behalf of the South Africa Meetings, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions (MICE) sector. Binning has also been invited to address 800 MICE sector delegates at the premium International BRICS gathering, hosted by the  India Exhibition Industry Association on Friday 11 May. The BRICS MICE Co-operation Forum aims to look at creating strategies which will enhance opportunities for cooperation in the MICE sector. "India has a massive, competitive economy which points to the value and potential of business tourism created by synergistic events and the participation of the Indian business community in South African hosted MICE activities", Binning said. Binning said following the first  BRICS MICE Co-operation Forum held in China, late last year, the South African representation, led by SAACI, sought to build partnerships and extract real returns from it. "The agreement is significant and a start of a formal process which we trust will bring good returns,'' Binning said. "Relationship building is a long-term process but we are discussing specific activities and actions to move the forum into tangible returns for the partners." "As a result I will also be visiting Russia after the forum to meet BRICS, industry and SA Embassy representatives to explore cooperation between SA and Russia, Binning said. Binning will input, alongside other international presenters,  on the programme for the conference, which deals with Emerging Formats of Meeting Events. "It will  cover new formats of exhibitions and conferences and the technological advancements that are driving heightened delegate and exhibitor experience and value." Inkanyezi Events, based in Port Elizabeth, with a national footprint, is one of South Africa's foremost MICE sector companies. Established in 1998 it celebrates its 20th year of operations in 2018. 