 The Minister in the Presidency Responsible for Women, Ms. Bathabile Dlamini, on Wednesday said that she had noted media reports of a public altercation between Catherine Wiro and MP Mduduzi Manana. "We categorically denounce and are against any form of violence against women under whatever circumstances. The fight against gender-based violence remains our fundamental commitment," she said. It is alleged that Ms Wiro opened and withdrew a case of assault, crimen injuria and intimidation against Mr Manana, who is the former Deputy Minister of Higher Education and Training, and a current Member of Parliament. The Minister is also aware that on 7 May 2018, Manana issued a statement in which he announces his intention to “file a legal suit against the Wiro family for extortion as they demanded an amount of R100 000.” “The public altercation between Ms Wiro and Mr Manana presents a serious cause for concern for a number of reasons. The allegations of violence have resurfaced against Mr Manana, who as a leader, has been entrusted by the public to represent them at the Parliament of the Republic. "Such leader must therefore live his life as a living reflection of the aspirations of our Constitution. At the same time, we are concerned by allegations of extortion levelled against the Wiro family by Mr Manana,” said the Minister. This public altercation comes against the historical background of Mr Manana’s plea of guilt, in September 2017, to assaulting three women. He was subsequently sentenced to 12 months in prison or a R100 000 fine, as well as 500 hours of community service. Manana was also to undergo counselling to address the underlying causes of his violent behaviour against women. “We therefore urge all parties involved to submit themselves to law enforcement processes in order for the matter to be addressed by our judicial system,” continued the Minister. The Minister emphasised that “the Department and Ministry of Women remains committed to improving the social-economic conditions of all womens in South Africa. As such, we encourage women throughout the country to continue to report crimes that threaten their chances at enjoying the liberties bestowed upon them by our hard-earned Constitution. We also urge the Security Cluster in general and the Police in particular to address allegations of Violence on Women as a matter of urgency.” 