 The urgent bail application of imprisoned African National Congress (ANC) Councillor, Andile Lungisa, is being heard in the Port Elizabeth Magistrate's Court. Lungisa, who was last month convicted on a charge of assault with the intent to cause Grievous Bodily Harm (GBH), was sentenced to three years behind bars at the beginning of May. One year was suspended for five years, so he will serve an effective two-year jail term. Lungisa faced charges of assaulting Democratic Alliance (DA) councillor, Rano Kayser, and allegedly smashed a glass jug filled with water over Kayser’s head during a brawl that broke out a Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality council meeting in October 2016. Several African National Congress (ANC) supporters and councillors from the Metro and the Sarah Baartman District attended the brief court hearing on Thursday. So did Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF) Councillors and members of the ANC Youth League. Senior ANC official and fomer MEC, Mlibo Qoboshiyane, who also attended the hearing along with Lungisa's family, asked the ancestors of the ANC to be with Lungisa during this time because he did what he did while on duty. He also advised those in attendance to learn from this chapter to control their anger and understand that, as leaders, they have been given the power to navigate difficulties. Qoboshiyane also said that he believed Lungisa should not be behind bars.  He highlighted that Lungisa is not a flight risk - adding that if the court feels otherwise, then his passport can be taken from him, just so that he can be with his children and to continue to do his job of liberating the people. He also advised the crowd to be humble and patient so that on Friday, Lungisa can be released. "It is about justice and fairness. That's why we are here, even if he would be assigned to clean the streets or hospitals - as long as he will be able to step on the streets of Port Elizabeth as he deserves, that would be enough," Qoboshiyane said. "I saw wish Friday will be different and that we will witness Lungisa come out to join us all." 