 Created in 2017, the Vodacom Code Like A Girl project is an initiative that was developed by Vodacom in order to encourage more women to establish an interest in technological careers through learning how to code. On Friday, 25 young female learners between the ages of 14 and 18 across seven different schools in Port Elizabeth, had their graduation ceremony. The young learners showcased their developed websites to their fellow coding classmates and empowered their fellow participants to proudly showcase the abilities and skills they gained during the week-long course. The project ran from Monday till Friday in Bloemfontein, Midrand, Polokwane and Port Elizabeth. The Code Like A Girl project requires female learners to undertake a week-long training course that covers basic knowledge of computer languages and development programmes including HTML, CSS, GitHub and Bootstrap. The learners were also given the opportunity to take on a fun and empowering life skills journey while developing coding, presentation and communication skills; all of which help work towards providing the learners with well-rounded development. #CodeLikeAGirl project To qualify to become a candidate for this project, learners were required to have math and science as current subjects with a score of 70% or more. “Coding form the nuts and bolts of the digital workplace of the future; the Fourth Industrial Revolution. Through programmes such as these, we can finally see these girls contribute to the diversity that is lacking in the industry,” said Mpumelelo Khumalo, Managing Executive for Vodacom Eastern Cape. “In addition to learning about coding, the programme also focuses on getting the girls excited about building things. In addition to encouraging the teaching of valuable interpersonal skills, the programme also improves their confidence and presentation skills,” explained Khumalo. Of the girls that participated there were those that have laptops and computers at home, a handful of students who have access to communal computers as well as students who have never touched a computer before in their lives. By the end of the project all of the girls will have ended the week having grasped the basics of coding and developing a website. Image: The top 5 girls of the programme were given prizes from cell phones to tablets from Vodacom. From left to right; Chaniah Hoffman (15), Asisipho Ndwayana (15), Kaitlin Kayser (16), Babalwa Menze (16), Jade Smith (14). Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 