 Looking for the perfect accommodation in Port Elizabeth during your business trip? With an ideal location and conferencing options, The Kelway Hotel in Humewood is the perfect choice! The hotel is perfectly positioned for business and leisure travellers seeking central accommodation in Port Elizabeth, being just a few minutes away from the airport and within walking distance of PE’s more popular tourist attractions and beaches. The Kelway Hotel offers 63 en-suite rooms, conference facilities and secure parking. The fabulous Farriagers restaurant and bar serves amazing breakfasts, lunches and dinners. With its elegant style and welcoming staff, the overall tone of the hotel is warm and inviting. The hotel offers 36 luxury rooms, 25 standard rooms and two premier rooms for their guests. These newly renovated rooms are equipped with all the amenities for a comfortable stay including coffee and tea making facilities and individually controlled air conditioning and DSTV. Complimentary Wi-Fi is also provided so you can even work from your room without stress, and the individual private balconies finish off the rooms with both style and comfort. Creative Conferencing As for their conferencing venues, the Kelway Hotel has not only one, but two state-of-the-art, fully air conditioned conference venues with Wi-Fi to choose from. The Tanner Conference Room is a perfect spacious venue to host breakfast seminars, meetings, trainings, conferences or even motivational talks. The venue can comfortably seat 80 – 100 delegates depending on the style of setup. Conference packages can be tailor-made to suit any budgetary requirements. The Tanner Boardroom is ideal for hosting smaller sessions - from interviews and training to executive director meetings. The venue can seat 16 – 20 also depending on style of setup. Dining Delight The hotel’s restaurant and bar, the Farriagers, has a casual yet sophisticated atmosphere and has something to offer for everyone. The restaurants’ breakfasts, corporate lunches, candlelit dinners or merely a light meal on the terrace can be enjoyed while taking in the views across Algoa Bay. Pre-dinner drinks on the viewing deck often include sightings of frolicking dolphins or one of the bay’s resident whale families. The Chefs make sure to use only the finest ingredients and offer a fusion menu of European and South African influences. The bar, with its train theme and original memorabilia, is the most popular place for many to relax and enjoy a drink and the ocean-views. The cellar features a number of South Africa’s finest wines and beers, not to mention a number of imported beers in stock. To book your accommodation or next conference event, email reservations@thekelway.co.za or call 041 584 0638 or visit www.thekelway.co.za today. For great savings on life’s little pleasures visitBargain Buys!  Know somebody who is getting married,Wedding and Function can assist.  Have kids, then you need to visitKids Connection. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 