 The State's first witness in the trial of controversial Nigerian televangelist and Senior Pastor of the Jesus Dominion International church, Timothy 'Tim' Omotoso, and his co-accused, Lusanda Solani and Zukiswa Sitho, took the stand on Wednesday. This follows after the Defence attorney, Peter Dauberman, explained to presiding Judge, Mandela Makaula, on Tuesday that his clients had "refuse to plead to all the charges against them”. Omotoso, Solani and Sitho are facing 97 charges in total including for racketeering, sexual assault and rape. 63 of those charges constitute the main charge sheet while 34 are alternative charges. On Tuesday, it also emerged that the two women that were thrown out of the Port Elizabeth High Court on Tuesday after claiming to Omotoso's security detail, are actually local police officers. State witness testimony The witness, 22-year-old Nombulele Zondi, took the stand and told the Port Elizabeth High Court that she was born in Mpumalanga and joined the Jesus Dominion International church at the age of 13 years old in 2009 while doing Grade 7. She said that after attending church services many times, she finally went to a National Church conference, which was hosted by Omotoso in Durban. "I was thrilled to go there because I had watched clips of Omotoso [preaching]." She said that when she got there, she noticed a group of beautiful women, who walked in and out with him. "They were part of a choir, and I was also an aspiring singer," Zondi described. She said that when she got there, one of the Pastors approached her and said that Omotoso had liked the way she behaved. "I was excited to have received the news because they were said by a man of God." Witness says Omotoso controlled her life She then received instructions from one of the beautiful ladies in that group, a message that included Omotoso's number with strict instructions that she must SMS him three to five times a day and report her every move. "He wanted to know all my movements, in the morning I had to SMS him and say 'Good morning, I hope you slept well' in the evening I had to say ‘Good evening, sleep well' and also if I had to go to the shops, I had to SMS him and say 'My mom sent me to the shop to buy sugar and beef-stock’,” Zondi described. However, she said that Omotoso never replied to the SMSes, but he'd call when he wanted to communicate with her. She said that every time he called, he would ask the same questions about her family members and her love life, which she didn't have. "I was 14, I didn't have a love life, I didn't have a boyfriend and still a virgin," she said. "He put so much emphasis on my non-existing love life." The trial continues… Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 