 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, accompanied by the Metro's MMC for Human Settlements, Andile Mfunda,  and local Ward 28 Cllr, Xola Tyhali, on Friday handed over three RDP houses to residents in Veeplaas and Zwide that were built through the Metro's destitute programme. The delegation also used the opportunity to interact with local residents and took note of the challenges that they face as the residents had so much to to tell the Mayor. According to the Municipality spokesperson, Mthubanzi Mniki, the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's Human Settlements Department has committed itself to delivery quality houses with more focus placed on vulnerable groups - the elderly, disabled, women and child headed families. One of the beneficiaries, 33-year-old Bandiso Baleni, said he was very happy to have received the house. "I am happy because it took time for me to get a house and I am very much happy that I finally got it," he told RNEWS. "I was staying at KwaDwesi Extension in an informal settlement. After my uncle died, I moved this side and luckily a house was built and now I won't be staying in an informal settlement." Informal settlement incident Earlier this year in Kwadwesi, a one-year-old baby girl survived being thrown from the roof of a shack during tense evictions of shack dwellers. Mfunda told the residents of Veeplas that his objective is to ensure that the everyone has a roof above their heads. Mayor Bobani also visited 17-year-old Nomathamsanqa Ngwanya, who said that she has been living in Veeplas ever since she was born. However, Ngwanya's house is not a good condition for habitation as there were many cables hanging over the walls - like a "Christmas tree" as she described. "My house could fall anytime because it has cracks everywhere and the electricity box is broken, there is only one plug working." Ngwanya stays in the house with her grandchildren and her 15-year-old son. Mayor Bobani promised the old lady that her electricity box would be fixed. Ward will get Bobani's special attention "I will pay special attention to this Ward," Bobani said while addressing the residents. He said that the tour had shown him that the residents of Ward 28 desparately need the Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality's intervention. Bobani promised residents that he would come back to further engage them on their challenges and what the Metro will do to assist. "I won't be sitting in my office - everyone who wants me will get me here as I work with the community trying to fix their problems and bringing service delivery," the Mayor said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 