 Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Executive Mayor, Mongameli Bobani, has promised that a Uitenhage mother and her wheelchair-bound daughter will get an RDP house. The 48-year-old mother, Luleka Lucas and her 14-year-old daughter, Sinesipho Boyce, were living in an informal settlement when they were instructed to demolish the home so that it can be replaced with a formal RDP house. However, things did not work out as planned as they were told that the normal 45 square-meter house could not fit in their yard because the yard is too small. In August last year, Bobani, who was still Nelson Mandela Bay Municipality Deputy Executive Mayor, visited the family and promised to keep in touch with Councillor Phakamisa Mfama, who is their Ward Councillor, to ensure that Lucas gets her house. However, he was ousted as Deputy Mayor before that promise could come to fruition. Lucas and her 14-year-old daughter depend on social grant, which is not enough especially now that rent is involved. Sinesipho's physical state Lucas is the primary care-giver for her wheelchair-bound daughter. The daughter, Sinesipho, was diagnosed with meningitis at seven years old, which resulted in her being unable to do anything for herself. Due to Sinesipho's physical state her mother cannot leave her alone at home to go and work. Mayor Bobani said that he was contacted by Lucas in 2017, pleading with him to talk to the relevant stakeholders so that she and her child could have a proper home. Bobani's removal as Athol Trollip's Deputy Unfortunately, while Bobani was making follow ups on Lucas's plea, he was removed as Deputy Mayor. Now that he is back, Bobani told RNEWS that he has already spoken to Cllr Mfama asking for an update with regards to Lucas' situation. He said that Lucas is a priority when new homes are built in Ward 42. "I'm waiting for a report, which will state when those houses will be built then I will go to Mama Lucas and tell her that I haven't forgotten about her. "Her situation and that of Sinesipho keeps me up at night and I want to say to her I haven't forgotten about her and I'm constantly communicating with her ward Councillor," Mayor Bobani said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 