 Finding and retaining top talent can be a challenging and risky task. Sourcing top talent is not a matter of good luck; it’s a matter of consistently applying an effective hiring process. Utilising the right solutions to improve upon your process will allow you to attract and hire the most talented individuals: people who are the right fit for your organisation, not just the job. Drake can handle all or part of your staffing needs - driving organisational effectiveness and measurable business improvement Drake International Group of Companies are global specialists in the field of Human Resources, Permanent and Temporary staffing and Technology Solutions. Established in 1951, Drake operates in 14 countries around the world with branches in all the major centres in South Africa. Amita Slabbert, Country Manager for South Africa, says: Drake is more than a recruitment company, Drake's expertise is in enabling Organisations to improve their profitability and productivity through the alignment of people, process and technologies though excellent service and quality assurance. Drake's extensive network of services meets the diverse needs of the market and is geared towards solving real business problems. Drake International’s Talent Management Solutions Drake provides solutions to address a variety of challenges related to Talent Management: Permanent Recruitment Solutions Finding and retaining top talent can be a challenging and risky task. Sourcing top talent is not a matter of good luck: it’s a matter of consistently applying an effective hiring process. Whether you are looking for entry-level or senior-level staff, Drake will implement our 12 Steps to Selection Success to ensure that you hire the right person the first time. Temporary Employment Services Does your workload fluctuate while your workforce remains the same? Adopting a flexible staffing strategy prevents overstaffing during slow times, and understaffing during busy times. We specialise in providing general labourers, skilled trades, office personnel and more. Unbundled Services Drake can assist you at any stage of the recruiting process. Choose from a full suite of Talent Acquisition Solutions to augment or outsource your current recruitment process. Behavioural Assessments – Drake P3 Drake P3 will assist you in using behavioural traits to select the ‘right’ fit, onboard new hires, enhance teamwork, identify and develop talent, as well as motivate top performers. Skills Assessments – Drakewize Drakewize Assessments can be used as an ideal solution to assess administrative and technical skills for prospective and existing employees. Engagement Surveys Identify key organisational concerns and opportunities through a standardized or customised engagement survey. Workforce Analytics Our analytics solution will enable you to create dashboards on workforce trends, headcount levels, distribution, etc. with visually appealing and interactive graphs and charts. This would allow you to gain insight into your workforce at any given time. Exit Interviews Find the root causes behind the attrition by collecting honest and open feedback and offering recommendations for change. Outplacement Terminating employees can be extremely stressful and traumatic for both management and employees. we will customize an outplacement solution for your organisation to minimise employee hardship while reducing corporate and personal risk. Drake Training Academy Aside from assisting organisations to attract the best possible talent, The Drake Training Academy facilitates the retention of top talent through our training programmes For more information on how Drake International can assist you call 0860 22 23 24 or email Paige Austin on paustin@drake.co.za 