 The African National Congress (ANC) in the Nelson Mandela Bay Region held a press conference on Wednesday following their disbandment by the Provincial Executive Committee (PEC) on Monday. The ANC in the Eastern Cape highlighted several challenges faced by the Nelson Mandela Bay region as the reason for the decision to disband its leadership. The ANC in the Bay said that they will be appealing the decision to disband them to the ANC National Executive Committee (NEC). Acting ANC Regional Chairperson in Nelson Mandela Bay, Phumzile Tshuni, said that they have already written a letter to the ANC National Executive Committee where they appealed for the NEC to come and engage the Nelson Mandela Bay region. "We call on the NEC to visit our region and make an assessment of their own on the work that we have done since the election of the REC into office,” he said. If found that PEC made the decision prematurely, they want the NEC to punish them. "We reject any factional attempts to disband us as a region.” ANC Nelson Mandela Bay is performing better Tshuni said that the decision to disband the Regional Executive Committee (REC) was a sad one especially knowing very well that the reason for the poor performance is because of the 2016 election results that took an unexpected turn. He added that the performance of the ANC in the NMB was not entirely bad. The performance of the South African Students Congress Organization (SASCO) at the Nelson Mandela University, which again won this year’s Student Representative Council (SRC) elections was a good example. He added that door-to-door campaigns leading to 2019 elections have been started, while also highlighting that REC meetings have been successful with constant reports being sent after every meeting. Tshuni insists that the PEC has assumed that the situation in the Nelson Mandela Bay region cannot be salvaged and made their decision was prematurely. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 