 Things got out of hand at the Port Elizabeth High Court where Defence lawyer, Peter Daubermann, who has been cross-examining the first State witness, Cheryl Zondi, in the trial of controversial Nigerian televangelist, Pastor Timothy ‘Tim’ Omotoso, was confronted by an angry crowd and had water thrown at him. Daubermann is representing Omotoso and his co-accused, Lusanda Solani and Zukiswa Sitho. He has been cross-examining, Zondi’s testimony against the trio, particularly Omotoso. However, his cross-examination has made him unpopular with many people – even on social media, who feel that he has been harsh and insensitive with Zondi, who is supposed to be a victim of Omotoso’s abuse. The comments on social media have not been kind to Daubermann with many claiming that it is because of lawyers like that rapists often go scott-free. Things got to a boil on Wednesday afternoon as Daubermann left the Port Elizabeth High Court and he was surrounded by an angry mob that had gathered outside the courtroom to offer support to Zondi. The angry crowd, which had members of the Rise up against Gender based Violence movement, the local Economic Freedom Fighters (EFF), and the African National Congress, then followed Daubermann hurling insults at him. Someone went as far as attacking him with water. That was when police officers came to his rescue and escorted him to his car, which drove off at high speed.  Omotoso’s wife, Taiwo, not spared In the morning, Omotoso’s wife, Taiwo, arrived in the courtroom wet. Apparently, water had also been thrown at her by the angry crowd outside the court. She looked shaken and fearing to leave the court premises after finding the crowd waiting for her after they had mobbed Daubermann. However, Omotoso supporters from his Jesus Dominion International church, also didn't back down. They continued to chant and had cars doing stunts across the court – perhaps with the aim of taking of the attention off their 'mother' Taiwo. Zondi says police officers would take off their SAPS for Omotoso to step on Earlier on, Daubermann asked Zondi why she did not approach the South African Police Service (SAPS) after she had alleged been sexually abused by Omotoso at his Umhlanga home in Durban, Zondi said that she could not trust the police. Zondi claimed that she had seen several police officers, who are members of Omotoso's  Jesus Dominion International church taking off their official SAPS jackets and laying them down on the ground for Omotoso to step on. Trial continues… Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 