 According to congregants from the Jesus Dominion International church, their Senior Pastor, controversial Nigerian televangelist, Timothy ‘Tim’ Omotoso, who faces a raft of charges in the Port Elizabeth High Court is “an innocent man of God who is standing trial unlawfully”. The Omotoso trial is expected to enter its second day on Tuesday after Judge Mandela Makuala on Monday afternoon dismissed an application by the Defence that the case against Omotoso and his two co-accused, Lusanda Solani and Zukiswa Sitho, be thrown out because the State had failed to provide specific details about the places, dates and times when the crimes were committed. Omotoso, Solani and Sitho, are facing 97 charges in total, 63 of those charges constitute the main charge sheet while 34 are alternative charges. The charges include racketeering activities, sexual assault and rape. One of the Pastors at the Jesus Dominion International church, Osuagwu Chuks, blaming the media for being "biased" against Omotoso – explaining that the media also portrayed his church’s congregants as dangerous and brainwashed following an incident that happened when journalists visited the Port Elizabeth branch of the church last year after Omotoso’s arrest. The journalists were apparently met by angry church members and a physical confrontation ensued. However, Pastor Chuks denied the allegations, still insisting that there is no proof of such allegations. "Our church is an open door place and any person can be there, if you are attacked and you can't specifically say that this is the person that attacked me, then you cannot blame the church for that," he described. ‘Tim Omotoso is innocent’ Referring to the Omotoso trial and what happened in court on the first day of the trial, Pastor Chuks said: "We want to tell you that this person has done more than good than what is portrayed. "Judging from what happened in court today, there is no case and human rights are not being honoured – that is a threat to the National security of this country.” He added that Omotoso's arrest has created a bad image for the church for no reason. "Tim Omotoso has been in this country for over 15 years and he has no record of any criminal offense," Chucks said. NPA ready for the trial Meanwhile, speaking for the National Prosecuting Authority (NPA), Tsepo Ndwalaza, said: “We are pleased that the judge was able to see-through the whole thing and we believe that was just a tactic for the defence to get away with crime. "As the NPA we have said that this man has a case to answer before the court of law and I think that's what's going to happen.” He dismissed the Defence’s argument that insufficient information had been provided to the Defence to make it harder for the defendants to respond to the allegations against them. "We've got nothing to hide, we believe that we are ready for trial and we just want justice," he said. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 