 The South African National Roads Agency SOC Ltd (SANRAL) announced an official roll-over of a 24-month community development project in Sigidi and Mahaha Village on the Wild Coast on Wednesday. According to the SANRAL Southern Region Project Manager, Fezekile Duze, the project aims to improve safety for local traffic and non-motorised access of local communities to the N2 Wild Coast Road (N2WCR). To monitor socio-economic development SANRAL has appointed a training service provider tasked primarily to train, mentor and develop “Learner Sub-contractors”. It has also given an opportunity to 10 Small, Medium and Micro-sized Enterprises (SMMEs) in the village to construct a gravel road in the village. The 10 SMMEs will undergo classroom training before they actually start with the work. "The 24-month training programme will provide a full learnership programme, accredited by the South African Qualifications Authority (SAQA), which will provide the National Qualifications Framework (NQF) level 2, 3, and 4 training,” said Duze. The SANRAL Southern Region Manager, Mbulelo Peterson, said that a school yard of Sigidi Junior Primary School, which has been used for three months in terms of providing Theoretical training for the SMMEs has not been taken for granted. An upgraded parking area, which is fully concrete, will be provided for the school. Opportunity for local SME’s Mzandile Yebeni, who runs Sophaphela General Trading and is a registered as a CIDB Level 1 CEPE, said that he was very happy to be part of the project. “Once I am finished working on this project, I hope to get work elsewhere on other projects," he added. Meanwhile, Nwabisa Dlamini, of Sigidi Development – also registered as a CIDB level 1 CEPE, said: “I used to sell my produce to markets to earn an income. "Through this project, I have gained knowledge on the construction industry and once completed, I want to apply for other jobs on other projects. I am proud to be part of this course,” said Dlamini. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 