 As a business traveller, you need to be sure that your place of accommodation can cover all you basic needs, and ideally located near clients and project sites. For these reasons, the Humewood Hotel is the perfect base for business executives visiting Port Elizabeth. The Humewood Hotel offers ample workspace, reliable Wi-Fi, great service and immediate access to the airport among other facilities. Those travelling with family can also relax while they conduct business. Walking into the hotel, which has been around since the early 1900’s, you immediately get the feeling that this place is a home away from home. The staff members are very friendly and professional, and always make sure that your stay is enjoyable - let’s just say that the service is top notch. Banqueting at Humewood Hotel This 3-Star establishment has two banqueting rooms for small meetings, such as from interviews, trainings, product launches, to events of up to 20 people. Both venues are fully air-conditioned to provide maximum comfort during sessions and come with modern conferencing such as a projector, a PA system and flip charts. There are two dining areas for your delegates within the hotel, the Coffee Shop and the Sandpiper Restaurant. The Sandpiper Restaurant can serve meals for day conferences of a maximum of 40 delegates and also caters for functions of up to 80 guests. Meals from the Coffee Shop may also be enjoyed on the veranda that is shared with the Quarter Deck Bar. It’s a great place from which to watch the world go by and to enjoy the splendid view of Algoa Bay. Conferencing atHumewood Hotel For conferences lasting longer than a day, a full buffet breakfast is served and is inclusive in the accommodation rate. A full buffet dinner is also served at the Sandpiper restaurant every evening, and their menu offers a wide variety to suit any taste. They also offer lunch and a special Sunday lunch buffet. When it comes to accommodating your guests, you will be spoiled for choice. Each room at the Humewood Hotel is beautifully decorated, spacious, neat and clean. There is also air-conditioning in every room, with satellite television, tea/coffee making facilities, direct dial telephones and en-suite bathrooms. They also offer their guests free Wi-Fi throughout the whole building and secure parking. In addition, the hotel is close to the PE International Airport, the CBD, as well as the Bay’s other popular attractions. From beautiful rooms, to tasty meals and intimate conference venues, to an absolutely amazing view of Algoa Bay, it is no wonder why this is a hotel loved by locals or travellers alike! To book your next stay or to find out more about the Humewood Hotel, call 041 585 8961 or visit their website at www.humewoodhotel.co.za. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 