 In celebration of the World Teacher’s Day, education activist, Matthew Goniwe will be remembered during a three-day event that will be attended by the Minister of Basic Education, Angie Motshekga, at the Boardwalk Casino, in Port Elizabeth. The event will commence on Thursday, while Motshekga is expected to be present on Friday. According to the Eastern Cape Department of Education, Spokesperson Malibongwe Mtima, Goniwe will be remembered with a memorial lecture. “Goniwe, an educationist and an activist for social transformation has been selected by the department due to his contribution towards making education a central pillar for knowledge development, dedication, inspiration, kindness, encouraging high level of performance and emphasizing excellence in being a teacher,” Mtima described. “Since education is mother of all professions, the department has opted to join the world in increase recognition and respect for this profession,” he added. Who is Matthew Goniwe? Matthew Goniwe was one of the four anti-apartheid activist teachers from Cradock, Eastern Cape who died in the ‘Cradock Four’ roadblock in 1985. It is said that Goniwe and his fellow comrades, Fort Calata, Sparrow Mkhonto, Sicelo Mhlauli were believed to be on the secret police hit list for being too active against the apartheid in Cradock. The four were abducted against their will, killed and their bodies were burned. Goniwe was a Secondary School teacher from 1983 at Sam Xhallie Secondary School. In the Gauteng, there is an education NGO named after him, which is a section 21 Company (non-profit organisation and an agency of the Gauteng Department Of Education (GDE). The NGO’s main focus is School Governance and Teacher Development for schools in the Gauteng province. The institution is located in two campuses. Goniwe’s star sign Goniwe’s Zodiac star sign was Capricon which is a symbol of strength, confidence and abundance. It is no question that Goniwe died while trying to show his strength and confidence in the hands of the apartheid police. What Goniwe studied at Fort Hare like Nelson Mandela Just like the first president of democratic South Africa, Goniwe completed his Teacher’s Diploma at the University of Fort Hare, in Alice.   