 If unobtrusiveness, classiness and convenience are the big deal-breakers when you choose your executive hotels, then the next time you are in Port Elizabeth, check in at Isango Gate Boutique Hotel and Spa. Hidden away in one of Summerstrand’s quiet and upmarket neighbourhoods, this particular boutique hotel is both exclusive and has all the fine niceties that make executive travel the envy of everyone else. It offers a tranquil, yet contemporary, setting of African Zen gardens, an open-deck area, earth tones, modern lines and style as well as a calming marine touch that sets the scene for a perfect let-up after a busy day of business negotiation. What’s more, this gem is located within a few kilometres of the Port Elizabeth CBD, the airport and the city’s leisure attractions. While staying at Isango Gate, you can easily do it all in PE in so little time. During the day, you can utilise either the hotel’s exclusive, fully-equipped conference venue – aptly called Mvumelwano or ‘agreement’ in Xhosa, or its equally-magnificent meeting rooms which are among the finest available in the Bay. For your relaxation, Isango Boutique Hotel offers 5-Star accommodation in 10, tastefully-designed suites. Eight suites have private balconies and magnificent views of the Indian Ocean. All suites have internet connection, DSTV and fine linen among other deluxe conveniences. Isango Gate's Ndlovu Sinazo Bar Before, you rush off to bed, though, the Ndlovu Sinazo Bar is the best place to rejuvenate while enjoying scrumptious snacks, refreshing cocktails and fine wines. Excellent cigars can also be enjoyed on the deck overlooking the hotel’s Infinity pool. Working from the hotel’s Penda Pendu Restaurant – or ‘together in our house’ in Shona, Isango Gate’s Master Chefs are always ready to prepare you imaginative and delectable local cuisines, with international flare of course. These are often complemented with choice local and international wines - some of them quite rare. If you do have a more discerning palate, the Executive Chef can happily tailor a menu to your specific requirements too. Isango Gate has a highly-capable, experienced and dedicated staff - guaranteeing you exceptional service for the duration of your stays. Furthermore, there are several exciting 10-15 minute recreational activities offered at the hotel. These include chocolate and wine pairings or wine/beer tastings and cocktail-making sessions. Ladies will certainly enjoy pampering and manicure sessions at Isango Spa. The more adventurous will certainly love the fact that the hotel is within easy reach of PE’s top tourist attractions and some of the province’s premier game reserves. For more information or to book your next stay, call 041 811 2225 or visit online at www.isangogate.co.za. Follow more RNEWS articles, subscribe to our YouTube channel and for breaking news LIKE us on Facebook. 